1. J Crohns Colitis. 2026 Jun 7;20(6):jjag077. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjag077.

Histologic and combined histologic-endoscopic outcomes with mirikizumab in 
Crohn's disease: VIVID-1 trial results.

Jairath V(1), Magro F(2), Protic M(3), De Hertogh G(4), Harpaz N(5), Hisamatsu 
T(6), D'Haens G(7), Pai R(8)(9), Yu G(3), Morris N(3), Luo WT(3), Hon E(3), 
Escobar R(3), Biedermann L(10), Reinisch W(11); VIVID Study Group.

Collaborators: Tron E, Dorado FD, Thin L, Leong R, Seltenreich H, Christensen B, 
Croft A, Ghaly S, Koch R, Reinisch W, Heeren S, Bossuyt P, Ferrante M, Maximiano 
FL, Sassaki LY, Baia C, Poli D, de Sousa Carlos A, de Magalhaes Francesconi CF, 
De Sa Rolim A, Razera J, Neto JS, Rocco R, Stifft J, Soldera J, Silva G, 
Clemente CM, Di Felice Boratto S, de Campos LT, Borba MR, Rosenfeld G, Ponich T, 
Lim A, Williams C, Musgrave B, Gauthier S, Liu W, Wang C, Guo H, Chen C, Chen 
YC, Cao Q, Zhong J, Xu M, Wang Y, Zheng C, Gao X, Chen Y, Miao Y, Wang L, Liu D, 
Wang B, Song Z, Liu X, Chen B, Jiang Y, Zhan Q, Zhang K, Shen H, Li Z, Wang X, 
Wang MW, Tian D, Chen L, Tang W, Borzan V, Krznaric Z, Volfova M, Pumprla J, 
Veberova L, Tichy M, Gregar J, Stepek D, Ulbrych J, Drastich P, Papik Z, Matous 
J, Lukas M, Koskova R, Fallingborg J, Altwegg R, Fotsing G, Laharie D, Nancey S, 
Peyrin L, Schreiber S, Hoffmann J, Seidler U, Fechner L, Arelin K, Contzen C, 
Trenn G, Schaum T, Schoettker K, Bachmann O, Encke J, Ibe M, Jakobeit C, Varga 
M, Salamon A, Kafony A, Horvat G, Heringh Z, Bezzegh K, Izbeki F, Szalai L, 
Schnabel R, Samanta J, Banerjee R, Subramanian G, Mukewar S, Bansal NK, Sood A, 
Bagepally RS, Kumar PS, Shrimal P, Shah S, Pai N, Ahuja V, Melzer E, Assy N, 
Goldin E, Shirin H, Segal A, Lahat A, Saibeni S, Luzza F, Danese S, Caprioli F, 
Annunziata ML, Fantini M, Matsuda K, Takagi S, Kanmura S, Goto M, Ashida T, 
Nishimata N, Kawakami K, Ishiguro YI, Maemoto AM, Naito YN, Naoe H, Nakase H, 
Iida T, Akiyama J, Yoshioka M, Abe Y, Takeuchi K, Kawai M, Hirai F, Horiki N, 
Park SH, Park D, Kang SB, Jung MK, Jang BI, Lee YJ, Shin S, Kim TO, Kim HS, Lee 
BI, Lee J, Kim HJ, Choi CH, Kim D, Eun CS, Kang B, Pokrotnieks J, Kiudelis G, 
Ramirez K, Fonseca JLV, Laheij R, Kierkus J, Klopocka M, Wylegala Z, Mroziak B, 
Wojcik K, Korczowski B, Gawdis B, Danilkiewicz W, Olszanecka M, Krzykowska J, 
Jamrozik Z, Duszynska M, Ciesiolkiewicz A, Baluta M, Horynski M, Leszczyszyn J, 
Rozumek G, Firkowski L, Konopko M, Orleanski J, Filip R, Wiechowska A, Niezgoda 
K, Mateescu R, Craciun E, Chioncel C, Musat M, Voiosu TA, Trofimov V, Shchukina 
O, Pershko A, Fedorishina O, Chumakova G, Bakulin I, Osipenko M, Nikolin D, 
Barysheva O, Alexeeva O, Zakharov K, Khodareva I, Tkachev A, Golovenko A, Popova 
V, Kashnikov V, Vershinina M, Makarchuk P, Valuyskikh E, Crevar S, Svorcan P, 
Radakovic T, Hlavaty T, Bunganic I, Fedurco M, Kalisova I, Balaz J, Mihalkanin 
L, Arranz MDM, Parreno LT, Cuffi MS, Camba AH, Brand S, Juillerat P, Seibold F, 
Demirci H, Tezel A, Simsek H, Kiyici M, Gonen C, Hulagu S, Karakan T, Cekin A, 
Altintas E, Guven K, Akpinar H, Ozin Y, Erzin Y, Demir M, Temel T, Lohdanidi T, 
Ivanov V, Ivanishyn O, Golovchenko O, Gerasymenko O, Danyliuk S, Vyshyvanyuk V, 
Datsenko O, Stanislavchuk M, Rishko Y, Kyrychenko O, Donets D, Shapovalova Y, 
Yurkiv A, Oliinyk O, Tsarynna N, Fediv O, Poplyonkin Y, Kaser A, Hoque S, Thomas 
H, Iyengar S, Newman F, Fogel R, Pedersen P, Gonzales C, McCord G, Galambos M, 
Lamb P, Schneider J, Bhandari BR, Weiss M, Thai C, Shapiro M, Younes Z, Murali 
N, Hou J, Williams T, Khalid O, Hsu C, Bartalos C, Arimie C, Mumtaz S, Crespo I, 
Beery RM, Tuskey A, Gaible R, Cutler A, Afzali A, Stuart K, Ibegbu E, 
Irizarry-Roman M, Harris K, Agyei K, Jones F, Sheikh A, Zakko L, Cohen E, Duvall 
G, Kharrat HA, Wohlman R, Holderman W, Schulman A, Lidofsky S, Wayne P, Victores 
L, Stone C, Onwueme K, Fischer M, Shahid S, Moore K, Katz J, Bullock J, Fahed J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Western University, London, N6A 2L9, Canada.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, 4099-002, Portugal.
(3)Immunology, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, 46285, United States.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, KU Leuven, 3000, Belgium.
(5)Henry D. Janowitz Division of Gastroenterology, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, 10029, United States.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kyorin University, Tokyo, 
181-8611, Japan.
(7)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Centre, Amsterdam University Medical Centers, 
Amsterdam, 1105 AZ, Netherlands.
(8)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Sinai Health System, 
Toronto, ON, M5G 1X5, Canada.
(9)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, M5S 1A1, Canada.
(10)Head of Inflammatory Bowel Disease and Eosinophilic Esophagitis Division of 
Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Universitäts Spital Zürich, Zürich, 8006, 
Switzerland.
(11)Division Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, 1090, Austria.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Evaluation of microscopic inflammation is an emerging 
therapeutic target of Crohn's disease. The completed VIVID-1 trial evaluated 
histologic and combined histologic-endoscopic outcomes for mirikizumab relative 
to placebo and ustekinumab in moderately-to-severely active Crohn's disease.
METHODS: Two specimens from each of five intestinal segments (one ileal, four 
colonic) were obtained from the edge of ulcers, or the most inflamed mucosa at 
screening, and weeks (W)12 and 52. Histologic response was defined as the 
absence of epithelial neutrophils and epithelial damage, erosions and ulceration 
or ≥50% decrease in either the active Robarts Histopathology Index or the active 
Global Histologic Disease Activity Score, and was prespecified. Histologic 
remission was defined as absence of mucosal neutrophils, no epithelial damage, 
and no erosions and ulcers and was a prespecified endpoint. Post-hoc analyses 
included subgroup analyses, the proportions of patients achieving combined 
histologic-endoscopic outcomes, the agreement between histologic outcomes and 
endoscopic or clinical outcomes, segmental analyses, the assessment of cut-off 
points for fecal calprotectin, and the association between W12 histologic 
outcomes and selected W52 outcomes.
RESULTS: At W12, mirikizumab was superior to placebo for histologic response 
(P < .0001) and histologic remission (P = .001), with similar rates to 
ustekinumab (P = .58 and P = .44, respectively). At W52, mirikizumab-treated 
patients showed greater histologic response (P = .008) compared to ustekinumab, 
especially in patients who previously failed biologic therapies (P = .006). 
Combined histologic-endoscopic response at W52 was numerically higher for 
mirikizumab (P = .06) and reached statistical significance among biologic-failed 
patients (P = .02); however, combined remission rates were comparable across 
treatment arms.
CONCLUSIONS: Mirikizumab was superior to placebo in achievement of all 
histology-based endpoints. Mirikizumab showed higher rates compared to 
ustekinumab for achievement of histologic response at W52. Early histologic 
response among endoscopic non-responders was associated with 1-year endoscopic 
outcomes. ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03926130.

© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European 
Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjag077
PMID: 42309525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Minerva Gastroenterol (Torino). 2026 Jun 17. doi: 
10.23736/S2724-5985.26.04026-X. Online ahead of print.

Neurofeedback as a non-pharmacological strategy for pain and gut-brain axis 
disorders: clinical relevance in inflammatory bowel disease.

Spagnolo G(1)(2)(3), Ferrarese D(1)(2)(3), DI Vincenzo F(4)(2), Iaccarino J(2), 
Murgiano M(2), Vecchione M(5), Puca P(1)(2), D'Onofrio AM(2)(6), Natalello 
G(7)(8), D'Agostino MA(7)(8), Gasbarrini A(1)(2)(9), Camardese G(10)(11), 
Chieffo DP(3)(12), Scaldaferri F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)IBD Unit, Centro di Malattie dell'Apparato Digerente (CeMAD), Unit of 
Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, IRCCS A. Gemelli University Polyclinic 
Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Sacred Heart Catholic 
University, Rome, Italy.
(3)Clinical Psychology Unit, IRCCS A. Gemelli University Polyclinic Foundation, 
Rome, Italy.
(4)IBD Unit, Centro di Malattie dell'Apparato Digerente (CeMAD), Unit of 
Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, IRCCS A. Gemelli University Polyclinic 
Foundation, Rome, Italy - federica.divincenzo30@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Social and Developmental Psychology, Sapienza University, Rome, 
Italy.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Section of Psychiatry, Sacred Heart Catholic 
University, Rome, Italy.
(7)Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology Unit, IRCCS A. Gemelli University 
Polyclinic Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(8)Department of Geriatric and Orthopaedic Sciences, Sacred Heart Catholic 
University, Rome, Italy.
(9)Internal Medicine Unit, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, IRCCS A. 
Gemelli University Polyclinic Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(10)Department of Neuroscience, Head-Neck and Chest, Section of Psychiatry, 
IRCCS A. Gemelli University Polyclinic Foundation, Rome, Italy.
(11)Department of Life Science, Health, and Health Professions, Link Campus 
University, Rome, Italy.
(12)Department Women Children and Public Health, Sacred Heart Catholic 
University, Rome, Italy.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn's disease and ulcerative 
colitis, are chronic conditions associated with gastrointestinal inflammation 
and a wide range of extraintestinal manifestations. While conventional 
treatments primarily address intestinal inflammation, many patients continue to 
experience chronic pain, psychological comorbidities, and functional 
gastrointestinal symptoms, highlighting the need for integrated therapeutic 
strategies. This narrative review explores the potential of neurofeedback (NFB) 
as a non-invasive therapeutic approach for managing symptoms frequently observed 
in IBD, including musculoskeletal pain, anxiety, depression, post-traumatic 
stress symptoms (PTSS), and gut-brain axis dysfunction. In the absence of direct 
evidence on neurofeedback in IBD populations, we examined data from clinical 
trials conducted in conditions that are frequently comorbid with or 
symptomatically overlap with inflammatory bowel disease, including fibromyalgia, 
irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), chronic pain syndromes, and affective or 
trauma-related disorders. We focused on outcomes related to chronic pain, 
psychological well-being, and gastrointestinal function, examining NFB protocols 
primarily targeting alpha, theta, and sensorimotor rhythms, which have shown 
promising results in improving symptom severity and autonomic regulation. These 
findings support the rationale for investigating NFB as a potential adjunctive 
therapy in IBD, particularly for patients with residual or refractory 
extraintestinal symptoms. However, as none of the available studies specifically 
involve patients with IBD, the evidence base remains indirect. Moreover, current 
findings are limited by small sample sizes, heterogeneous methodologies, and 
variable outcome measures in the studied populations, making it difficult to 
draw definitive conclusions regarding the efficacy of NFB in this context. 
Future research should include large-scale, randomized controlled trials 
conducted directly in IBD cohorts, along with protocol standardization and 
individualized approaches based on neurophysiological profiles. Clarifying the 
therapeutic potential of NFB in this population could open new avenues for 
non-pharmacological, patient-tailored interventions within integrative care 
frameworks.

DOI: 10.23736/S2724-5985.26.04026-X
PMID: 42304893


3. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2026 Jun 16:izag105. doi: 10.1093/ibd/izag105. Online ahead
 of print.

Comparative efficiency of leucine-rich alpha-2 glycoprotein and fecal 
calprotectin to assess endoscopic activity in Crohn's disease: a prospective 
observational study.

Kawamura T(1)(2), Yamamura T(3), Nakamura M(1)(2), Maeda K(3), Sawada T(1), 
Ishikawa E(3), Murate K(3), Hirose T(3), Ishikawa T(3), Furukawa K(3), Honda 
T(3), Okita M(4), Kawashima H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endoscopy, Nagoya University Hospital, Nagoya 466-8560, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Aichi Medical University School of Medicine, 
Yazakokarimata, Nagakute, Aichi 480-1195, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Nagoya University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Nagoya 466-8550, Japan.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Nagoya 466-8550, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic healing is a key therapeutic target for Crohn's disease 
(CD). However, endoscopy is invasive, and simple, non-invasive biomarkers are 
needed to assess endoscopic healing. Although leucine-rich alpha-2 glycoprotein 
(LRG) and fecal calprotectin (FC) are indicators of inflammatory bowel disease 
activity, few studies have directly compared them for endoscopic disease 
activity in CD. We aimed to compare the ability of these markers to assess 
endoscopic remission in CD.
METHODS: From October 2022 to December 2023, 100 patients with CD at Nagoya 
University Hospital were prospectively and consecutively enrolled. Endoscopic 
activity was assessed using the applied simple endoscopic score for Crohn's 
disease (aSES-CD), incorporating small bowel lesions. The primary endpoint was 
the sensitivity of LRG and FC in endoscopic remission (aSES-CD ≤ 3), which was 
tested using McNemar's exact test. Logistic regression analysis was used to 
identify factors associated with endoscopic remission.
RESULTS: Overall, 84 patients were analyzed (79.8% male; median age 49.5 years). 
The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis yielded 
sensitivity/specificity values of 85.9%/90.0% for LRG and 70.3%/85.0% for FC, 
using cutoff values of 11 µg/mL (LRG) and 100 µg/g (FC) for endoscopic 
remission. Based on these values, a comparison of sensitivities between LRG and 
FC showed that LRG had significantly higher sensitivity (P = .013). In 
multivariate analysis, only LRG was an independent factor for endoscopic 
remission (odds ratio 3.016; 95% CI, 1.506-6.037).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with FC, LRG shows a higher sensitivity for assessing 
endoscopic remission. LRG may serve as a useful biomarker for endoscopic 
activity in CD.

Plain Language Summary: In this prospective study, serum LRG showed higher 
sensitivity and closer correlation with endoscopic activity than FC in Crohn’s 
disease, particularly for small-intestinal lesions, and may serve as a useful 
and practical biomarker.

© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s 
& Colitis Foundation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact 
reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other 
permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions 
link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ibd/izag105
PMID: 42298226


4. Nat Genet. 2026 Jun 15. doi: 10.1038/s41588-026-02634-7. Online ahead of
print.

Single-cell RNA sequencing of terminal ileal biopsies identifies signatures of 
Crohn's disease pathogenesis.

Krzak M(#)(1), Alegbe T(#)(1)(2), Taylor DL(#)(1)(2), Jones GR(#)(3), Ghouraba 
M(1), Strickland M(1), Harris BT(1), Satti R(1), Arestang K(4), Ramirez-Navarro 
L(1), Nishad N(4), Cheam KAX(1), Tutert M(1), Ozols M(1), Noell G(1), Leonard 
S(1), Przybilla MJ(1), Suastegui CR(1), Khabirova E(1), Deng T(1)(2), Najgebauer 
H(1)(2), Petrova V(1), Jones CP(1), Wana N(1), Hu MX(1), Skelton J(1), 
Ostermayer J(1), Gu Y(1), Garri W(4), Brezina B(4), Caballes CQ(4), Corridoni 
D(2)(5), Parkes M(4), Iyer V(1), Martin CC(1), McIntyre RE(1), Raine T(6)(7), 
Anderson CA(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK.
(2)Open Targets, Hinxton, UK.
(3)Centre for Inflammation Research, Queens Medical Research institute, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University 
Hospitals, Cambridge, UK.
(5)Sanofi R&D, Cambridge, UK.
(6)Open Targets, Hinxton, UK. tr223@cam.ac.uk.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University 
Hospitals, Cambridge, UK. tr223@cam.ac.uk.
(8)Wellcome Sanger Institute, Hinxton, UK. carl.anderson@sanger.ac.uk.
(9)Open Targets, Hinxton, UK. carl.anderson@sanger.ac.uk.
(#)Contributed equally

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease exhibiting 
substantial heterogeneity in clinical presentation and response to therapy. To 
explore its molecular basis, we developed IBDverse, a large single-cell RNA 
sequencing (scRNA-seq) dataset of terminal ileal biopsies, profiling over 
1.1 million cells from 111 patients with CD and 232 healthy controls. This 
resource integrates discovery and replication cohorts for the robust 
identification of CD-associated cell types, genes and pathways. We uncovered 
epithelial changes marked by interferon-driven upregulation of major 
histocompatibility complex class I molecules that persisted in progenitor cells 
after macroscopic inflammation resolution. ITGA4+ macrophages were identified as 
key inflammatory drivers, showing enriched JAK-STAT signaling and cytokine 
expression (interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-12 and IL-23). Heritability analysis linked 
inflammatory monocytes and macrophages to CD susceptibility, implicating 
resident and recruited immune cells in pathogenesis. These findings establish a 
comprehensive cellular and molecular framework for CD, offering insights into 
disease mechanisms and therapeutic opportunities.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41588-026-02634-7
PMID: 42298187

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: C.A.A. has received 
research grants or consultancy or speaker fees from Genomics, BridgeBio, GSK, 
AstraZeneca and Open Targets. T.R. has received research or educational grants 
and/or speaker or consultation fees from AbbVie, Arena, Aslan, AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, BMS, Celgene, Ferring, Galapagos, Gilead, GSK, Heptares, 
LabGenius, Janssen, Mylan, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Sandoz, Takeda, UCB and Open 
Targets. B.T.H. has received speaker fees from BridgeBio. D.C. is now an 
employee at AstraZeneca. M.T. and R.E.M. are now employees at Relation 
Therapeutics. The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


5. Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2026 Jun 15:S2468-1253(26)00113-5. doi: 
10.1016/S2468-1253(26)00113-5. Online ahead of print.

HLA-DRB1*01:03 in patients with inflammatory bowel disease: a genotype-phenotype 
association study.

Zhang Q(1), Shakweh E(2), Sharip MT(3), Zare B(4), Roberts C(5), Wyatt NJ(6), 
Clough J(5), Bewshea C(5), Garwany OE(1), Lees R(7), Mukhtar S(8), Rehman H(9), 
Thistle H(10), Mulligan R(7), Taylor M(11), Raymode P(12), Hamilton B(13), Noor 
NM(3), Morda F(14), Taylor M(15), Gyanwali M(16), Tobi O(17), Kateroglou S(11), 
Von Hagt S(18); UK IBD Genetics Consortium; NIHR IBD BioResource; Sebastian 
S(19), Hart A(20), Keylock L(21), Pele L(21), Lees CW(22), Raine T(3), Lamb 
CA(6), Anderson CA(1), Ahmad T(5), Uhlig H(23), Parkes M(3), Fachal L(1), 
Kennedy NA(5), Lee JC(24).

Collaborators: Hollis J, Moran G, Mowat C, Prescott N, Allah-Ditta M, Ashton J, 
Baburajan B, Baker-Moffatt M, Banerjee T, Beales I, Beckly J, Berrill J, Bevan 
R, Bose M, Bradley J, Brechin C, Brezina B, Butterworth J, Caswell M, Chew TS, 
Clark K, Cocking L, Cooney R, Croft N, Davies A, de la Revilla Negro J, De Silva 
A, Desoki R, Dhar A, Foley S, Gasparetto M, Gunasekera A, Hancock L, Hartley T, 
Hay V, Hobday D, Hoque S, Icke B, Irving P, Jafar W, Jarvis M, Javaid B, Jenfa 
G, Johnston E, Jones M, Kapoor A, Kent A, Kingston N, Knight H, Kok KB, Koss K, 
Koumoutsos I, Lancaster N, Landy J, Lee J, Lee K, Limdi J, Lobo A, Macfaul G, 
Mansour D, McLaughlin J, Muhammed R, Murray C, Nwokolo C, Orchard T, Ovington N, 
Patel V, Powles S, Ramage J, Ramakrishnan S, Ranganath V, Sadigh D, Satsangi J, 
Selinger C, Shabana S, Shawky R, Shenderey R, Shenoy A, Simmons A, Sivaji G, 
Smith K, Steed H, Steel A, Stirrups K, Verma A, Walker G, Warden S, Warner B, 
Wesley E, Williams H.

Author information:
(1)Genomics of Inflammation and Immunity Group, Human Genetics Programme, 
Wellcome Sanger Institute, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, UK.
(2)Department of Metabolism, Digestion and Reproduction, Imperial College 
London, Hammersmith Hospital Campus, London, UK; St Mark's Hospital and Academic 
Institute, Central Middlesex, London, UK.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Cambridge University Hospital NHS Foundation 
Trust, Cambridge, UK; Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(4)St Mark's Hospital and Academic Institute, Central Middlesex, London, UK; 
Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College, London, UK; IBD Centre, 
Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Royal Devon University Healthcare NHS 
Foundation Trust, Exeter, UK; Exeter IBD and Pharmacogenetics Research Group, 
University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(6)Immunity and Inflammation Theme, Newcastle University Translational and 
Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle, UK; Department of Gastroenterology, 
Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Newcastle, UK.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, Newcastle, UK.
(8)East and North Hertfordshire NHS Trust, Stevenage, UK.
(9)Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK.
(10)Liverpool University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Liverpool, UK.
(11)Northern Care Alliance NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, UK.
(12)Kettering General Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Kettering, UK.
(13)Exeter IBD and Pharmacogenetics Research Group, University of Exeter, 
Exeter, UK; Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust, Torquay, UK.
(14)Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK.
(15)Dorset County Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Dorchester, UK.
(16)University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, UK.
(17)West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust, Watford, UK.
(18)Western Sussex Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Worthing, UK.
(19)Hull Royal Infirmary, Hull, UK.
(20)St Mark's Hospital and Academic Institute, Central Middlesex, London, UK.
(21)NIHR BioResource, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation, Cambridge 
Biomedical Campus, Cambridge, UK.
(22)Immunity and Inflammation Theme, Newcastle University Translational and 
Clinical Research Institute, Newcastle, UK; Institute of Genetics and Cancer, 
University of Edinburgh Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK; Edinburgh IBD 
Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.
(23)John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(24)Genetic Mechanisms of Disease Laboratory, The Francis Crick Institute, 
London, UK; Department of Gastroenterology, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK; 
Institute for Liver and Digestive Health, Division of Medicine, University 
College London, London, UK. Electronic address: james.lee@crick.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The association between HLA-DRB1*01:03 and severe ulcerative colitis 
has long been recognised. However, the recent discovery of an association with 
neutralising auto-antibodies against IL-10 raises new questions about whether 
this haplotype contributes to other subphenotypes of inflammatory bowel disease 
(IBD). We sought to systematically reappraise the contribution of HLA-DRB1*01:03 
across the full spectrum of IBD subphenotypes, including multiple 
disease-related adverse outcomes.
METHODS: In this genotype-phenotype association study, we used data from 
patients with IBD of inferred European ancestry from more than 100 UK hospitals 
who were recruited into the National Institute for Health and Care Research IBD 
BioResource or the UK IBD Genetics Consortium cohorts between 2005 and 2025. 
Associations between HLA-DRB1*01:03 and IBD phenotypes were examined using 
logistic or linear regression, and adjusted for sex, smoking, diagnosis, 
follow-up, genetic principal components, six co-inherited HLA alleles, and other 
significant associations. Time-to-event analyses were performed using Cox 
regression models.
FINDINGS: 43 762 patients with IBD (21 839 with Crohn's disease and 21 923 with 
ulcerative colitis or IBD unclassified) were included in our analysis. 
HLA-DRB1*01:03 carriage was observed in 2009 (4·6%) patients with IBD and 
associated with multiple severe outcomes in the adjusted models, including 
colonic resection in patients with Crohn's disease (odds ratio 1·35 [95% CI 
1·07-1·69]), colectomy in patients with ulcerative colitis or IBD unclassified 
(1·99 [1·63-2·43]), perianal disease in both patients with Crohn's disease (1·65 
[1·42-1·92]) and patients with ulcerative colitis or IBD unclassified (1·70 
[1·27-2·28]), and advanced therapy use in patients with Crohn's disease (1·33 
[1·12-1·58]) and patients with ulcerative colitis or IBD unclassified (2·17 
[1·86-2·52]). HLA-DRB1*01:03 was associated with younger-onset ulcerative 
colitis or IBD unclassified and older-onset Crohn's disease. HLA-DRB1*01:03 also 
associated with earlier development of perianal Crohn's disease (hazard ratio 
1·61 [95% CI 1·24-2·07]), earlier need for colonic surgery in patients with 
Crohn's disease (1·43 [1·13-1·82]), and earlier colectomy in patients with 
ulcerative colitis or IBD unclassified (1·69 [1·33-2·14]). HLA-DRB1*01:03 
carriers initiated advanced therapy earlier (HR 1·37 [95% CI 1·18-1·59] in 
patients with Crohn's disease and 1·82 [1·53-2·16] in patients with ulcerative 
colitis or IBD unclassified) and had a higher risk of advanced therapy failure 
across IBD phenotypes (HR 1·23 [95% CI 1·02-1·50]).
INTERPRETATION: HLA-DRB1*01:03 emerges as a genetic determinant of severe 
disease in both patients with Crohn's disease and patients with ulcerative 
colitis. Although further validation is needed, assessing HLA-DRB1*01:03 
carriage might help identify patients who could benefit from more intensive 
monitoring or earlier use of advanced therapies, aiming to modify the disease 
course to which they are genetically predisposed.
FUNDING: Wellcome Trust, the National Institute for Health and Care Research, 
the Medical Research Council, Open Targets, Crohn's & Colitis UK, the Helmsley 
Charitable Trust, Crohn's in Childhood Research Association, and AstraZeneca's 
Centre for Genomics Research.

The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under 
the CC BY 4.0 license.

DOI: 10.1016/S2468-1253(26)00113-5
PMID: 42296978

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests AH received consulting 
and honoraria fees from AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb, Alfasigma, AstraZeneca, 
Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Takeda, Celltrion, Roche, and Eli Lilly; is a 
governing board member of European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation; and is a 
research committee member for Crohn's and Colitis UK. BH has received grants or 
contracts from the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR). BZ 
has received honoraria fees from Takeda; support to attend meetings from 
Alfasigma, Lilly, AbbVie, and Falk Pharma; and fees from AstraZeneca. CAA has 
received consulting fees from BridgeBio and Genomics; honoraria from GSK; 
support to attend meetings from Wellcome Trust and GeneMappers; and is a 
director of Anderson Genomics Consultancy. CAL has received grants or contracts 
from Janssen, Takeda, AbbVie, AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly, Orion, Pfizer, Roche, 
Sanofi Aventis, UCB, Biogen, Genentech, Bristol Myers Squibb, GSK, Merck Sharp 
and Dohme, Medical Research Council, Helmsley Charitable Trust, Wellcome Trust, 
Crohn's & Colitis UK, NIHR Newcastle Biomedical Research Centre, EU Innovative 
Medicines Initiative, and Open Targets and European Bioinformatics Institute; 
consulting fees from Janssen, Bristol Myers Squibb, MSD, Takeda, and Polaroid 
Therapeutics; support for attending meetings or travel from Tillotts Pharma UK, 
Janssen, British Society of Gastroenterology, International Organisation of IBD, 
United European Gastroenterology, and the European Crohn's and Colitis 
Organisation; participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board 
for Mitochondrial Anti-oxidant therapy to Resolve Inflammation in Ulcerative 
Colitis; was secretary for the British Society of Gastroenterology; and steering 
committee and board member for IBD UK. CWL has received consulting fees from 
AbbVie, Takeda, Pfizer, Janssen, Merck, Gilead, Alfasigma, GSK, Eli Lilly, 
Novartis, Celltrion, Amgen, Samsung Bioepis, Fresnius Kabi, and Tillotts; and 
honoraria from AbbVie, Takeda, Pfizer, Janssen, Merck, Gilead, Alfasigma, GSK, 
Eli Lilly, Novartis, Celltrion, Amgen, Samsung Bioepis, Fresnius Kabi, and 
Tillotts. CR has received grants or contracts from OPEN-Targets, Nova 
Pharmaceuticals, and La Car MDx; and support for attending meetings from Eli 
Lilly. ES has received honoraria from Takeda, Lilly, and Dr Falk; and support 
for attending meetings from Takeda, Lilly, and Dr Falk. HU has received support 
from the Leona M and Harry B Helmsley Charitable Trust, Medical Research Council 
CoRE Exposome Immunology, and Oxford Biomedical Research Centre; grants from 
Johnson & Johnson and Eli Lilly; and has a patent on HLA diagnostics in IBD. JC 
has served as a paid speaker for Lilly; has received travel grants from Johnson 
& Johnson and Takeda; and has served as an advisory board member for AbbVie. JCL 
has received grants or contracts from Kenneth Rainin Foundation Research Grant, 
Medical Research Council/Merck Sharp & Dohme Alliance Research Grant, and 
Lifearc idea-to-innovation research grant; has received consulting fees from 
Johnson & Johnson, Enhanced Genomics, Pasithea, and Isomorphic Labs; honoraria 
from Johnson & Johnson and AbbVie; and has patents planned, issued, or pending 
(GB2304900.0: Methods of Treatment of Inflammatory Diseases). MP has received 
grants from Helmsley Trust, AstraZeneca, and Crohn's & Colitis UK. MTS has 
received support for attending meetings from Takeda; and participation on a data 
safety monitoring board or advisory board for Teva and Dr Falk Pharma. NAK has 
received grants from Pharmacosmos; consulting fees from Johnson & Johnson, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Falk, AbbVie, Sandoz, Falk, and Pharmacosmos; honoraria 
from Johnson & Johnson, AbbVie, Tillotts, and Pharmacosmos; support for 
attending meetings from Johnson & Johnson, AbbVie, and Lilly; and was Chair of 
British Society of Gastroenterology IBD Clinical Research Group until November, 
2025. NMN has received honoraria from AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celltrion, 
Ferring, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, Pfizer, Pharmacosmos, and Takeda; support for 
attending meetings from Celltrion, Dr Falk, Johnson & Johnson, Pharmacosmos, and 
Tillotts; and participation on a data safety monitoring board or advisory board 
for AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb, Pfizer, and Takeda. NJW has received support 
from the NIHR through an Academic Clinical Fellowship (August, 2021, to 
September, 2023); and support to attend educational events from the British 
Society of Gastroenterology, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Ferring Pharmaceuticals, 
and the Falk Foundation. OEG had stock options in Novo Nordisk and Vertex 
Pharmaceuticals during the past 36 months. RL has received a grant from Crohn's 
& Colitis UK (project grant FA2025–8); and has received conference attendance 
support from Ferring pharmaceuticals, Tillotts Pharma UK, and Dr Falk Pharma. RM 
has received honoraria from Dr Falk; and support for attending meetings from Dr 
Falk, Alphasigma, and Tillotts. SS has received grants from AbbVie, Johnson & 
Johnson, and Olympus; consulting fees from Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, and 
Celltrion; honoraria from Eli Lilly, AbbVie, Celltrion, Johnson & Johnson, and 
Takeda; and support for attending meetings from Eli Lilly, Celltrion, and 
AbbVie. TA has received grants from MAST Group, Nova Laboratories, and LaCAR MDx 
(Belgium); consulting fees from Amgen, Eli Lilly, Janssen, and Celltrion; 
honoraria from AbbVie, Takeda, Janssen, and Eli Lilly; and support for attending 
meetings from Tillotts and Lilly. TR has received grants from AbbVie and Takeda; 
consulting fees from AbbVie, AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Domain Therapeutics, Eli Lilly, Ferring, Gilead, GSK, Heptares, Janssen, 
MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Scientia, Takeda, and UCB; and is a member of 
United European Gastroenterology Society and European Crohn's and Colitis 
Organisation. All other authors declare no competing interests.


6. Int Immunopharmacol. 2026 Jun 15;185:116991. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2026.116991.  Online ahead of print.

Macrophage plasticity as a therapeutic target in inflammatory bowel disease: 
Immunomodulatory and regenerative strategies.

Nasimi F(1), Ashtari S(2), Moafi S(3), Baneshi F(4), Feizollah R(5), Samadi 
A(6).

Author information:
(1)MSc., Department of Medical Biotechnology and Nanotechnology, Faculty of 
Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.
(2)MSc., Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Medicine, Lorestan 
University of Medical Sciences, Lorestan, Iran.
(3)MSc., Graduate, Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Faculty of 
Biological Sciences, Kharazmi University, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Pharm.D, Novel Drug Delivery Systems Research Center, Department of 
Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, 
Isfahan, Iran.
(5)M.Sc., Graduate in Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, 
Ferdowsi University of Mashhad, Mashhad, Iran.
(6)Phd, Department of Basic Science, School of Medicine, Bam University of 
Medical Sciences, Bam, Iran. Electronic address: alisamadi23@mubam.ac.ir.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which mainly includes Crohn's disease and 
ulcerative colitis, is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal 
tract characterized by recurrent episodes of intestinal inflammation. The 
development of IBD is influenced by multiple factors, including genetic 
predisposition, intestinal dysbiosis, epithelial barrier impairment, and 
abnormal immune activation. Among innate immune cells, macrophages are key 
regulators of intestinal immune homeostasis and are involved in inflammatory 
responses, tissue remodeling, and mucosal repair. Their ability to adopt 
different functional states in response to local environmental signals has made 
them an important focus of current therapeutic research in IBD. Traditionally, 
macrophages have been classified into pro-inflammatory M1 and anti-inflammatory 
M2 phenotypes. However, recent findings from single-cell transcriptomic and 
spatial analyses suggest that intestinal macrophages represent a far more 
diverse and dynamic population than this simplified classification implies. 
Multiple macrophage subsets with inflammatory, regulatory, reparative, and 
fibrosis-associated functions coexist within the intestinal microenvironment and 
contribute differently to disease progression and tissue healing. These 
observations highlight the importance of developing more selective and targeted 
macrophage-based therapeutic approaches. In this review, we discuss the current 
understanding of macrophage plasticity and its role in the pathogenesis of IBD. 
Particular attention is given to newer macrophage-targeted therapeutic 
strategies, including adoptive macrophage transfer, engineered macrophages, 
receptor-targeted therapies, nanoparticle-based delivery systems, microbiome 
modulation, microbial metabolite regulation, gene-editing approaches, organoid 
technologies, and biomaterial-assisted platforms. We also examine the 
contribution of macrophages to epithelial regeneration, mucosal healing, 
fibrosis, and intestinal tissue remodeling. In addition, we address several 
major challenges that currently limit the clinical translation of 
macrophage-targeted therapies. A better understanding of macrophage biology, 
together with continued advances in immunology, regenerative medicine, 
microbiome research, and biomaterials science, may support the development of 
more precise and personalized therapeutic strategies for patients with IBD.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2026.116991
PMID: 42296782

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


7. Aging Dis. 2026 Jun 12. doi: 10.14336/AD.2026.0342. Online ahead of print.

Peripheral Immune Challenge Drives Enteric α-Synuclein and Tau Pathology in 
LRRK2 G2019S Mice.

Giachino C(1)(2)(3), Bertoli F(1)(4)(5), Tirolo C(2), Giuliano C(4)(5), Mearelli 
M(4)(5), Jakobi M(6), Schneiderhan-Marra N(6), L'Episcopo F(2), Deleidi 
M(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Institut Imagine, INSERM UMR1163, Paris, France.
(2)Neuropharmacology Laboratory, Oasi Research Institute-IRCCS, Troina, Italy.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, Pharmacology Section, 
University of Catania, Italy.
(4)Mitochondria and Inflammation in Neurodegenerative Diseases, DZNE, Tübingen, 
Germany.
(5)Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University of Tübingen, 
Germany.
(6)NMI Natural and Medical Sciences Institute, University of Tübingen, 
Reutlingen, Germany.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by α-synuclein aggregation and dopaminergic neuron loss. Non-motor 
symptoms, including gastrointestinal dysfunction, often precede motor onset, 
suggesting a gut origin of pathology. LRRK2 variants increase susceptibility to 
both PD and Crohn's disease, pointing to a potential link between LRRK2 
hyperactivity and early intestinal abnormalities; however, it remains unclear 
how LRRK2 contributes to enteric α-synuclein pathology and co-occurring 
proteinopathies. In this study, we investigated the interaction between chronic 
peripheral inflammation and the LRRK2 G2019S variant using a longitudinal mouse 
model combining ageing and repeated low-dose LPS exposure. We quantified 
peripheral cytokine levels, colonic immune cell infiltration (CD4⁺ T cells and 
macrophages), and the temporal progression of enteric α-synuclein and tau 
pathology across different ages. Our results showed that chronic LPS exposure 
induced an age-dependent increase in circulating cytokines and colonic immune 
infiltration in LRRK2 G2019S mice, accompanied by enhanced enteric α-synuclein 
accumulation and phosphorylation, alongside elevated tau phosphorylation, 
compared with wild-type controls. Notably, total neuronal counts remained 
stable, indicating a distinct pre-degenerative stage of pathology. Overall, our 
findings demonstrate that chronic peripheral inflammation synergizes with LRRK2 
G2019S to trigger early intestinal inflammation and α-synuclein/tau co-pathology 
in the absence of overt neurodegeneration. These results suggest that LRRK2 acts 
as a critical link between systemic immunity and neuronal protein homeostasis, 
increasing the vulnerability of the gut to inflammatory stress. Characterizing 
this early pathological window provides key insights into PD initiation and 
highlights the gut as a promising target for early therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2026.0342
PMID: 42295088


8. RNA Biol. 2026 Dec;23(1):1-19. doi: 10.1080/15476286.2026.2684781. Epub 2026
Jun  15.

Crosstalk between circRNAs and the classic signaling pathways in IBD.

Jie M(1), Liao Q(1), Liu C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Xinqiao Hospital, Army Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which includes Crohn's disease (CD) and 
ulcerative colitis (UC), is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the 
gastrointestinal tract with a complex aetiology involving genetic, environmental 
(such as diet/lifestyle), and microbiota factors. The exact pathogenesis of IBD 
remains unclear, and current therapies show limited effectiveness. Circular RNAs 
(circRNAs) are a novel class of noncoding RNAs that have been implicated in the 
regulation of various biological processes. Many circRNAs show specific 
expression profiles in IBD patients and play important roles in IBD pathogenesis 
through different signalling pathways, such as the Janus kinase/signal 
transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) and nuclear factor-κB 
(NF-κB) pathways. Although research on circRNAs in IBD is still in its early 
stages, many circRNAs have emerged as potential diagnostic, prognostic 
biomarkers, and therapeutic targets for IBD. Here, we summarize the molecular 
functions and underlying mechanisms of circRNAs in IBD and discuss current 
challenges and future perspectives for clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1080/15476286.2026.2684781
PMCID: PMC13274161
PMID: 42290604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


9. Sci Rep. 2026 Jun 14. doi: 10.1038/s41598-026-57094-0. Online ahead of print.

Investigation of the molecular network underlying PET-MPs-induced inflammatory 
bowel disease via integrated machine learning and molecular docking approaches.

Ye J(#)(1), Lu Q(#)(2), Wang H(#)(3), Chen Z(1), Ran S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Suizhou Hospital, Hubei University of 
Medicine, Suizhou, China.
(2)Department of Nephrology, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(3)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Suizhou Hospital, Hubei University of 
Medicine, Suizhou, China. Ransl96311@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Polyethylene terephthalate microplastics (PET-MPs), as environmental 
contaminants, have raised significant concerns due to their potential toxicity, 
leading to serious environmental pollution and health issues. However, their 
impact on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remains poorly elucidated. This study 
aims to investigate the potential molecular mechanisms linking PET-MPs to IBD 
pathogenesis. Multiple datasets were employed to identify Crohn's disease (CD)- 
and ulcerative colitis (UC)-associated targets. Multi-machine learning 
approaches were combined with molecular docking of a PET-related compound to 
evaluate potential binding interactions with the identified hub targets. This 
study delineated 9 putative targets associated with PET-MPs-related CD 
pathogenesis and 17 potential targets associated with UC pathogenesis. For CD, 
GBM showed the best performance among all models, with a mean ROC-AUC of 0.862; 
for UC, RF performed best, with a mean ROC-AUC of 0.806, based on both training 
and validation sets. Multi-machine learning analysis identified 14 hub genes as 
candidate key regulatory factors. SHAP analysis highlighted their significant 
contributions to the model predictions. Molecular docking simulations suggested 
favorable binding affinities between a PET-related compound and the hub targets. 
This study suggests that PET-MPs may contribute to IBD pathogenesis by 
potentially interacting with 14 machine learning-prioritized hub genes. 
Molecular docking analyses indicated predicted high-affinity binding between a 
PET-related compound and these targets. Collectively, these findings provide a 
hypothesis-generating framework for investigating the potential role of PET-MPs 
in IBD progression.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-026-57094-0
PMID: 42289588

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


10. Curr Pharm Des. 2026 Jun 9. doi: 10.2174/0113816128417113260325071230. Online
 ahead of print.

Emerging Trends in Targeted Molecular Therapies for Inflammatory Bowel Disease: 
Biologics and Small Molecules.

Borra PK(1)(2), Chandra P(3), Raghav A(4), Koneru A(5), Sachan N(6)(7), Gautam 
MK(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Sultan-ul-Uloom College of Pharmacy, 
Hyderabad, Telangana, India.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Vishnu Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Education and Research, Narsapur, Telangana, India.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, Teerthanker Mahaveer College of Pharmacy, 
Teerthanker Mahaveer University, Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, Teerthanker Mahaveer College of Pharmacy, 
Teerthanker Mahaveer University, Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Sultan-ul-Uloom College of Pharmacy, Hyderabad, 
Telangana, India.
(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Maharana Pratap College of Pharmacy, 
Mandhana, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmaceutical & Biological 
Sciences, Harcourt Butler Technical University (HBTU), Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, 
India.
(8)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Science, Assam down town University, Sankar Madhab 
Path, Gandhi Nagar, Panikhaiti, Guwahati, 781026, Assam, India.

INTRODUCTION: Crohn's Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC) are chronic 
Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD) characterized by complex immune dysregulation 
and multifactorial pathogenesis. Conventional therapies often show limited 
efficacy and are associated with substantial adverse effects. This review 
highlights recent advancements in targeted molecular therapies for IBD, 
emphasizing biologics, small molecules, and emerging delivery technologies.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature search was conducted across the PubMed, 
Scopus, and Web of Science databases, focusing on studies published within the 
last 7 years. Relevant data on therapeutic mechanisms, clinical efficacy, 
safety, and cost-effectiveness were systematically extracted and critically 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Biologic therapies, including anti-TNF agents (infliximab, adalimumab), 
integrin inhibitors (vedolizumab), and interleukin inhibitors (ustekinumab, 
risankizumab), have demonstrated significant improvements in remission and 
mucosal healing. However, challenges such as immunogenicity, loss of response, 
and high treatment costs persist. Small-molecule drugs, such as JAK inhibitors 
(tofacitinib, upadacitinib) and S1P receptor modulators (ozanimod), provide oral 
alternatives with rapid onset but entail systemic safety concerns.
DISCUSSION: Novel therapeutic avenues, including TYK2 and HDAC inhibitors, as 
well as nanotechnology-based delivery systems, show encouraging potential in 
early trials. Accessibility and affordability remain major obstacles, 
particularly in low- and middle-income regions, highlighting the need for 
biosimilars and international policy support.
CONCLUSION: Targeted molecular therapies have revolutionized IBD management by 
enabling precision treatment with enhanced efficacy and tolerability. Future 
efforts should focus on mitigating drug resistance, reducing costs, and 
integrating personalized medicine approaches to ensure global accessibility and 
sustainable disease control.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0113816128417113260325071230
PMID: 42283169


11. J Clin Med. 2026 Jun 2;15(11):4296. doi: 10.3390/jcm15114296.

Vitamin D Receptor-Macrophage-IL-23 Axis in Inflammatory Bowel Disease: 
Pathogenic Mechanisms and Therapeutic Hope.

Grigoraș A(1), Ghemiș L(1), Goriuc A(1), Murariu A(1), Fiterman N(1), Jdid N(1), 
Blaga T(1), Foia GL(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Grigore T. Popa University of Medicine and Pharmacy Iasi, 700115, Iasi, 
Romania.
(2)"Sf. Spiridon" County Clinical Emergency Hospital, 700111 Iasi, Romania.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including Crohn's disease and ulcerative 
colitis, is characterized by chronic intestinal inflammation driven by 
dysregulated immune responses in gut microbiota. Interleukin (IL)-23, a member 
of IL-12 cytokine family, has emerged as a key immune mediator, being produced 
mainly by macrophages from the intestinal mucosa. In recent years, vitamin D has 
become a pivotal immunomodulatory factor in IBD, vitamin D deficiency being 
commonly associated with this pathology. The immune effects of vitamin D are 
mediated through vitamin D receptor (VDR), widely expressed in macrophages and 
other immune cells. VDR signaling regulates pro-inflammatory macrophage activity 
and limits M1 polarization, therefore reducing IL-23 production and limiting 
Th17 driven inflammatory response. This review summarizes current evidence on 
the role of macrophage-derived IL-23 in IBD pathogenesis and highlights the 
modulatory effects of vitamin D/VDR signaling. In addition, it addresses the 
therapeutic relevance of targeting the VDR-macrophage-IL-23 axis in IBD.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm15114296
PMCID: PMC13257716
PMID: 42279156

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


12. J Clin Med. 2026 May 26;15(11):4098. doi: 10.3390/jcm15114098.

Is Routine Monitoring of TNF-α Inhibitor Levels and Antibodies in Pediatric IBD 
Justified in the Era of Personalized Medicine.

Pytrus T(1), Szyller HP(1), Augustynowicz G(2), Lasocka M(2), Watras S(1), 
Akutko K(1).

Author information:
(1)2nd Clinical Department of Paediatrics, Gastroenterology and Nutrition, 
Wroclaw Medical University, 50-369 Wroclaw, Poland.
(2)Student Scientific Group of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Wroclaw 
Medical University, 50-369 Wroclaw, Poland.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) with an onset in childhood is characterized by 
a more extensive phenotype, a more aggressive clinical course, and a higher risk 
of long-term complications, including growth retardation, compared to 
adult-onset disease. While tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors are 
the cornerstone of therapy, achieving sustained remission in children is often 
hindered by unique pharmacokinetic challenges, such as accelerated drug 
clearance and a higher propensity for immunogenicity. This review explores the 
evolving role of therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM), specifically the paradigm 
shift from reactive to proactive strategies. While proactive TDM remains a 
subject of debate in adult IBD, emerging pediatric data strongly support its 
routine use to optimize treatment durability and prevent secondary loss of 
response. Evidence-based target trough concentrations for pediatric patients are 
critical for achieving mucosal healing: 8-13 µg/mL at week 6 and >5-7 µg/mL 
during maintenance for infliximab, and >13-14 µg/mL post-induction for 
adalimumab. Beyond clinical outcomes, this review emphasizes the economic 
viability of proactive TDM, which has been shown to reduce total healthcare 
expenditures by 18-30% by minimizing hospitalizations and avoiding premature 
treatment switches. By integrating pharmacological data with clinical pathways, 
proactive TDM serves as an essential tool for personalized medicine, ensuring 
safer and more cost-effective management of pediatric IBD.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm15114098
PMCID: PMC13257764
PMID: 42278960

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


13. World J Gastrointest Pharmacol Ther. 2026 Jun 5;17(2):116608. doi: 
10.4292/wjgpt.v17.i2.116608.

Current approaches to disease severity and therapy effectiveness assessment in 
patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

Loktionov A(1).

Author information:
(1)DiagNodus Ltd, Cambridge CB4 0WS, United Kingdom. 
alex.loktionov@diagnodus.com.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a group of chronic recurrent disorders, 
Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis being its two major types. IBD patients 
require continuous lifetime monitoring of disease activity and effects of 
therapeutic interventions, achievement of stable remission being the goal of the 
current 'treat-to-target' strategy. This review considers a wide range of 
approaches applied for this purpose. Although ileocolonoscopy combined with 
histological evaluation and now employing modern endoscopic techniques is still 
regarded as the gold diagnostic standard, its inability of visualizing small 
intestine is a limitation. Alternative non-invasive techniques such as capsule 
endoscopy and, especially, cross-sectional imaging, comprising computed 
tomography enterography, magnetic resonance enterography, and intestinal 
ultrasound, are becoming increasingly popular. In addition, the use of molecular 
biomarkers detectable in human body fluids is a rapidly developing area, and 
recent rapid progress in gut microbiome research promises to add a new dimension 
to it. It is also anticipated that new approaches based upon multi-omics can 
identify new composite biomarkers useful for IBD monitoring. Artificial 
intelligence-driven integration of abundant information provided by various 
diagnostic and analytical modalities outlined in this review may help in 
transforming the current 'one-size-fits-all' treatment paradigm into a truly 
personalized model of IBD care.

©Author(s) 2026.

DOI: 10.4292/wjgpt.v17.i2.116608
PMCID: PMC13248159
PMID: 42273247

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: Loktionov A 
reports personal fees from DiagNodus Ltd, outside the submitted work.


14. Comput Biol Chem. 2026 Jun 4;124(Pt 2):109163. doi: 
10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2026.109163. Online ahead of print.

Comprehensive analysis of monocyte palmitoylation-related genes IFITM3 and 
CCL3-CCR5 axis in crohn's disease progression: Insights from mendelian 
randomization, multi-omics integration, machine learning, and SHAP methodology.

Song X(1), Yuan T(1), Xing J(1), Liu P(2).

Author information:
(1)Shandong Second Medical University, School of Life Science and Technology, 
Weifang, Shandong, PR China.
(2)Shandong Second Medical University, School of Basic Medical Science, Weifang, 
Shandong, PR China. Electronic address: lpt1978@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease marked 
by immune imbalance and monocyte dysfunction. IFITM3, a palmitoylation-related 
immune protein, may play a role in this process, but its involvement in CD 
remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the causal role of IFITM3 and 
related proteins in CD using Mendelian randomization, multi-omics analysis, and 
machine learning, to identify potential diagnostic markers and therapeutic 
targets.
METHODS: We performed Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis using pQTL data to 
identify causal associations between monocyte palmitoylation-related proteins 
and CD. Multi-omics data were integrated to construct a diagnostic model. A 
total of 12 machine learning algorithms across 110 combinations-including Enet, 
GBM, glmBoost, Lasso, LDA, NaiveBayes, plsRglm, RF, Ridge, Stepglm, SVM, and 
XGBoost-were evaluated. Models were ranked by area under the curve (AUC), and 
the top-performing model (random forest) was selected. SHAP analysis was applied 
to interpret feature contributions. Single-cell transcriptomics further explored 
monocyte communication in CD tissues.
RESULTS: MR analysis provided genetic evidence consistent with a causal role for 
IFITM3 in CD, suggesting its potential role in driving monocyte-related immune 
dysregulation. Additionally, four CCL chemokines-CCL3, CCL7, CCL20, and 
CCL26-were found to be causally associated with CD pathogenesis.The seven core 
genes (C2, IFITM3, FXYD3, LAX1, CD63, CKAP4, and SPPL2A) identified by Lasso 
regression achieved a minimum single-gene diagnostic AUC of ≥ 0.79 in the 
training cohort, showing robust diagnostic and predictive performance. The final 
random forest model incorporating these seven genes demonstrated strong 
predictive performance in three independent external validation cohorts 
(GSE75214, GSE16879, and GSE24287), with AUCs of 0.980, 0.961, and 0.902, 
respectively. SHAP analysis revealed that C2 had the highest predictive 
contribution in the model, whereas IFITM3-despite showing moderate predictive 
importance-had a significant causal association with CD, underscoring its 
biological relevance. Finally,single-cell transcriptomic analysis suggested 
enhanced monocyte communication in CD tissues, particularly through the 
CCL3-CCR5 axis, providing a computational inference that this pathway may 
contribute to chronic inflammation and disease progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight IFITM3 as a key immune-related macromolecule 
contributing to CD via monocyte-driven inflammation. The identified CCL 
chemokines and the CCL3-CCR5 axis further elucidate the inflammatory landscape 
in CD. The diagnostic gene model presents potential for clinical translation, 
and IFITM3 may serve as a candidate biomarker and a putative therapeutic target 
for CD, although experimental and prospective validation are required before 
clinical application.

Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2026.109163
PMID: 42269260

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


15. Biomed Pharmacother. 2026 Jun 10;200:119621. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2026.119621.  Online ahead of print.

PPARγ controls I3C-mediated anti-inflammatory effects through the NF-κB/IL-6 
pathway on gut inflammation models.

da Rocha GHO(1), Biermann MK(1), Kotte C(1), Riemschneider S(1), Hoffmann M(1), 
Schiefke I(2), Müller C(1), Lehmann J(3).

Author information:
(1)Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and Immunology IZI, Department of 
Preclinical Development and Validation, Leipzig 04103, Germany.
(2)St. Georg Hospital, Clinic for Gastroenterology, Hepatology, Diabetology and 
Endocrinology, Leipzig 04129, Germany.
(3)Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and Immunology IZI, Department of 
Preclinical Development and Validation, Leipzig 04103, Germany; Fraunhofer 
Cluster of Excellence Immune-Mediated Diseases [CIMD], Leipzig 04103, Germany. 
Electronic address: joerg.lehmann@izi.fraunhofer.de.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), comprising ulcerative colitis (UC) and 
Crohn's disease (CD), are chronic inflammatory disorders of the gut of limited 
available pharmacotherapy. Continuous efforts have striven to better unravel 
their etiology, but mechanisms leading to disease onset and progression are 
still not fully comprehended. While in vivo and in vitro colitis models are 
invaluable for elucidating such mechanisms, they fail individually to fully 
represent human disease and are not necessarily easily comparable. The 
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) is a transcription 
factor that has in recent years been evidenced as a key mediator of IBD 
progression, and better elucidating its role could advance the understanding of 
IBD. In the present study, we used a mouse model of chronic colitis alongside in 
vitro co-culture models employing THP1 macrophages combined with Caco-2 
epithelial cells or human intestinal organoids. In these models, we tested the 
influence PPARγ on the effects of indol-3-carbinol (I3C), a well-known agonist 
of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) that has been shown to be effective in 
ameliorating inflammation in murine colitis models, as well as how PPARγ 
expression is modulated in response to I3C treatment. Our results delivered 
clear evidence that PPARγ plays a key role in controlling the anti-inflammatory 
effects of I3C through the NF-κB/IL-6 axis in macrophages. Further, PPARγ is 
itself an indicator of I3C therapeutical efficacy in the epithelium. We suggest 
PPARγ as a potential biomarker for tracking disease progression and therapeutic 
efficacy, which could also serve as a putative target for future therapeutic 
interventions.

Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2026.119621
PMID: 42269215

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


16. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2026 May 22;16:1826972. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2026.1826972. eCollection 2026.

From dysbiosis to precision medicine: targeting the microbial-metabolic axis in 
IBD management.

Giju JK(1), John S(1), Sivadas A(1), Prabhakar M(1), K K(1), Sunilkumar D(2), 
Nair BG(1), Pal S(1), Prakash V(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biotechnology, Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Kollam, Kerala, India.
(2)The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center and Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, Columbus, OH, United States.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic relapsing inflammatory condition 
that has a rapidly changing global epidemiology. IBD has been traditionally 
viewed as a primary immune system dysfunction, but emerging evidence more 
accurately describes IBD as a perturbance of the intricate balance between host 
immunity, the intestinal microbiome, and intestinal metabolism. Although genetic 
and environmental components have long been recognized as contributors, 
accumulating evidence increasingly highlights the pivotal role of microbial 
dysbiosis in the pathogenesis of IBD. In patients with IBD, intestinal 
dysbiosis, which is often characterized by reduced Firmicutes and increased 
pro-inflammatory bacteria, triggers a cascade of pathogenic events. These 
pathogenic events include impaired epithelial barrier function, dysregulated 
immune activation against luminal antigens, and immune reprogramming. Central to 
these processes are functional changes in microbial metabolism, particularly in 
pathways involving short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), bile acids, and redox 
homeostasis, which critically contribute to the development of chronic mucosal 
inflammation. The current therapeutic backbone of IBD-including 
aminosalicylates, biologics, and immunomodulators-largely targets the 
inflammatory response. However, the challenges such as primary non-response, 
secondary loss of response, and systemic side effects are often problematic. 
Consequently, there is an urgent need to develop novel therapeutic and 
preventive strategies that target the underlying microbial and metabolic causes 
of the disease rather than modulating immune responses. This review integrates 
the pathomechanistic implications of the microbiome-metabolic axis in the 
maintenance of gut homeostasis and its disruption in IBD, with particular 
emphasis on the global epidemiology of the disease. We further evaluate emerging 
therapeutic and preventive strategies aimed at restoring the 
microbiome-metabolic axis, including fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT), 
probiotic therapy, bacteriophage therapy, and helminth-based therapies. In 
addition, we explore the potential of advanced approaches such as microbiome 
engineering and precision genome editing to enable highly personalized 
therapeutic paradigms. By bridging microbial ecology with clinical pathology, 
this review highlights the transformative potential of targeting the 
host-microbiota interface to achieve improved long-term outcomes in IBD.

Copyright © 2026 Giju, John, Sivadas, Prabhakar, K., Sunilkumar, Nair, Pal and 
Prakash.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2026.1826972
PMCID: PMC13236684
PMID: 42256221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


17. Gastro Hep Adv. 2026 May 29;5(7):100950. doi: 10.1016/j.gastha.2026.100950. 
eCollection 2026.

Integrated Stress Response and Necroptosis Drive Epithelial Dysfunction in 
Crohn's Disease: Repurposing Cancer Drugs for Permeability Barrier Healing.

Halder D(1), Lanford RB(1), Esmaeilniakooshkghazi A(1), Hou JK(2), Wang Y(3), 
Khurana S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, The University of Houston, Houston, 
Texas.
(2)Section of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.
(3)Division of Pathology-Laboratory Medicine Division, Department of Anatomical 
Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Intestinal permeability dysfunction is a central pathogenic 
driver of Crohn's disease (CD), fueling microbial translocation, chronic 
inflammation, and progressive tissue injury. While current therapies suppress 
inflammation, none directly restore epithelial barrier function. Importantly, in 
patients with CD, epithelial barrier healing rather than mucosal healing is 
associated with long-term remission and a reduced risk of disease complications. 
Yet permeability barrier healing remains an unaddressed therapeutic target in 
CD. Here, we investigated whether pharmacologic inhibition of the integrated 
stress response (ISR) and RIPK3-mediated necroptosis, 2 convergent pathways of 
epithelial injury, can promote epithelial viability, regeneration, and barrier 
integrity in CD.
METHODS: We employed villin-1/gelsolin double knockout mice with 
epithelial-intrinsic ISR activation, Tnf ΔARE/+ mice with chronic inflammation, 
and CD patient-derived enteroids (PDEs). Animals and PDE were treated with 
integrated stress response inhibitor, RIPK3 inhibitor necrostatin-1, or US Food 
and Drug Administration-approved cancer drugs pazopanib and ponatinib, 
repurposed as potent RIPK3 inhibitors. Epithelial survival, regenerative growth 
(enteroid formation, budding), and barrier function (transepithelial electrical 
resistance) were assessed.
RESULTS: Chronic ISR activation and necroptosis were prominent in both murine 
models and CD PDEs, causing epithelial death, Paneth cell expansion, impaired 
enteroid survival, and regenerative failure. Pharmacologic inhibition with 
integrated stress response inhibitor, necrostatin-1, pazopanib, or ponatinib 
restored villus architecture, reduced inflammation, enhanced epithelial survival 
and regeneration, and significantly improved transepithelial electrical 
resistance.
CONCLUSION: ISR activation and RIPK3-mediated necroptosis converge to drive 
epithelial injury and barrier dysfunction in CD. Repurposing pazopanib and 
ponatinib offers a potentially translatable approach to restore barrier 
integrity in CD.

© 2026 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastha.2026.100950
PMCID: PMC13241844
PMID: 42254860


18. Int Immunopharmacol. 2026 Jun 5;185:116968. doi:
10.1016/j.intimp.2026.116968.  Online ahead of print.

Small but mighty: the human mycobiome as an immunopharmacological regulator of 
inflammation and autoimmunity.

Ahmad S(1), Usman M(2), Bibi M(3), Aftab MN(4), Aslam MS(5).

Author information:
(1)Dr Ikram Ul Haq Instititute of Industrial Biotechnology, Government College 
University, Lahore 54000, Pakistan; School of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, 
University of the Punjab, Lahore 54000, Pakistan. Electronic address: 
saleemchhimmee@gmail.com.
(2)Shaikh Zayed Medical Complex, University Avenue, Block D Muslim Town, Lahore, 
Pakistan.
(3)School of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, University of the Punjab, Lahore 
54000, Pakistan.
(4)Dr Ikram Ul Haq Instititute of Industrial Biotechnology, Government College 
University, Lahore 54000, Pakistan. Electronic address: 
dr.naumanaftab@gcu.edu.pk.
(5)School of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, University of the Punjab, Lahore 
54000, Pakistan. Electronic address: shahbaz.ibb@pu.edu.pk.

The human mycobiome comprising commensal fungi such as Saccharomyces, Candida, 
Malassezia and others constitutes less than 0.1 percent of total gut microbes 
yet exerts outsized influence on host immune homeostasis. Fungal cell-wall 
components (β-glucans, mannans, chitin) engage C-type lectin receptors 
(Dectin-1/2), Toll-like receptors and NOD-like receptors to initiate Syk-CARD9, 
NF-κB and inflammasome signaling. These pathways shape both pro-inflammatory 
Th17/IL-22 responses that reinforce mucosal barrier integrity and 
anti-inflammatory IL-10/Treg circuits that promote immunotolerance. Commensal 
yeasts such as Saccharomyces boulardii secrete short-chain fatty acids that 
expand Foxp3+ regulatory T cells and bolster mucus production, 
while Malassezia indoles activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor to induce 
tolerogenic dendritic cells. Conversely, Candida-derived prostaglandins and 
oxylipins dampen Th1-mediated defenses, skewing immunity toward a regulatory 
phenotype. In murine models of inflammatory bowel disease, type 1 diabetes, and 
rheumatoid arthritis, supplementation with fungal -glucans and live yeasts 
indicates potential reductions in disease severity by modulating cytokine 
networks. Clinical studies further support these findings, with probiotic yeast 
administration lowering relapse rates in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease 
and improving systemic inflammation markers in multiple sclerosis. While 
mycobiome dysbiosis correlates with autoimmune flares, strategic restoration of 
fungal balance offers a novel avenue for therapeutic intervention. Collectively, 
current research underscores the mycobiome's integral role in immune regulation 
and highlight fungal metabolites and cell-wall ligands as promising targets for 
the prevention and treatment of autoimmune diseases.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2026.116968
PMID: 42248124

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


19. Saudi J Gastroenterol. 2026 May 20. doi: 10.4103/sjg.sjg_90_26. Online ahead
of  print.

STRIDE-II treatment target achievement in inflammatory bowel disease: a 
cross-sectional study from a tertiary IBD centre in the United Arab Emirates.

Al Hosani N(1), Al Hosani M(1), Aljanahi AA(1), Quraishi MN(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Sheikh Shakhbout Medical City, Pure Health, 
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Institute of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(3)College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Khalifa University of Science and 
Technology, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.

BACKGROUND: Data on STRIDE-II treatment target achievement in Middle Eastern 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) populations remain limited. We assessed the 
prevalence and predictors of deep remission at a tertiary IBD center in the 
United Arab Emirates.
METHODS: A cross-sectional analysis was conducted on 389 IBD patients (242 
Crohn's disease [CD], 147 ulcerative colitis [UC]) on stable treatment for ≥6 
months. Deep remission required concurrent clinical, biochemical, and endoscopic 
remission. Predictors were identified using logistic regression.
RESULTS: Complete STRIDE-II assessment was available in 264 patients (67.9%). 
Deep remission was achieved in 164 patients (62.1% available-case; 42.2% 
conservative, treating incomplete assessments as failure). In the advanced 
therapy subgroup ( n = 182), deep remission was 64.3% available-case and 43.8% 
conservative. Clinical remission was 78.7%, biochemical remission 72.4%, and 
endoscopic remission 69.2%. Rates were similar between CD and UC, and 
complicated CD phenotypes achieved equivalent deep remission to non-complicated 
disease (62.7% vs 63.9%, P = 0.85). Disease duration was the strongest overall 
predictor (OR 1.06 per year, 95% CI 1.02-1.10, P = 0.009). CD-specific 
predictors included B3 penetrating behavior (OR 5.49, P = 0.027) and male sex 
(OR 0.47, P = 0.039). In UC, older age and male sex were independently 
associated with remission. Higher advanced therapy exposure predicted lower 
remission odds in CD (adjusted OR 0.70, P = 0.034). No individual therapy 
demonstrated significant superiority in adjusted drug comparisons. Efficacy was 
preserved at second-line (67.4%) with decline at third-line (50.0%).
CONCLUSION: Deep remission rates in this UAE tertiary center cohort were 
comparable to or numerically higher than international reports. Further 
validation in prospective, geographically diverse populations is warranted.

Copyright © 2026 Saudi Journal of Gastroenterology.

DOI: 10.4103/sjg.sjg_90_26
PMID: 42241358


20. Dig Dis Sci. 2026 Jun 4. doi: 10.1007/s10620-026-09995-3. Online ahead of
print.

Combining Guselkumab with Upadacitinib Is Safe and Effective in the Treatment of 
Medically Complex Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Natt N(1), Choi D(1), Shafrir A(1), Dalal SR(1), Krugliak Cleveland N(1), Cohen 
RD(1), Rubin DT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Medicine Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease Center, 5841 S. Maryland Avenue, Chicago, IL, MC 4076, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Medicine Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease Center, 5841 S. Maryland Avenue, Chicago, IL, MC 4076, USA. 
drubin@bsd.uchicago.edu.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Dual-targeted therapy (DTT) combines medications with 
different anti-inflammatory mechanisms to manage immune-mediated conditions. We 
describe our experience of adding guselkumab (GUS) to upadacitinib (UPA) in 
complex inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
METHODS: We reviewed our real-world registry of adult patients with IBD who had 
GUS added to UPA. Prospectively collected outcomes included clinical remission 
(Harvey-Bradshaw Index (HBI) < 5 or Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index 
(SCCAI) < 3), biochemical remission (normalization of fecal calprotectin 
(FCP)/CRP), corticosteroid-free remission, and adverse events (AEs). 
Patient-reported activity of extraintestinal manifestations (EIMs) was 
retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: We identified 11 patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and 4 with 
ulcerative colitis (UC) who added GUS to UPA for luminal inflammation (n = 12) 
and/or EIMs (n = 5). Five of nine patients with active CD achieved biochemical 
remission. Of the four with symptomatic CD (HBI > 5), two achieved clinical 
remission. Four patients received DTT for CD-associated EIMs and two had partial 
improvement of symptoms after GUS. All 3 patients who started DTT for active UC 
achieved clinical remission and one with active enteropathic arthropathy had 
partial improvement of symptoms after DTT. AEs included minor skin irritation, 
fatigue, and headaches. 14/15 patients remain on DTT after median 6 months' 
follow-up.
CONCLUSION: The addition of GUS to UPA led to clinical remission in 50% and 100% 
of patients with CD and UC, and biochemical remission in 55.6% and 66.7% of 
patients with CD and UC, respectively. 60% noted improvement of their EIMs after 
adding GUS. No serious AEs were reported highlighting the safety of this DTT 
strategy.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-026-09995-3
PMID: 42240958

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: NN and AS 
have no relevant financial or non-financial interests to disclose. DC has served 
as a speaker bureau for Janssen Pharmaceuticals and as a consultant for Abbvie, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Prometheus Laboratory, and 
Boehringer Ingelheim. SRD has served as a speaker bureau for Abbvie and as a 
consultant for Johnson & Johnson. NKC has served as a consultant for NeuroLogica 
(a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics), Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals, GE 
Healthcare, Abbvie, and Sanofi. She is on the Board of Directors for the 
Intestinal Ultrasound Group of the United States and Canada (iUSCAN). RDC has 
served as a consultant for Abbvie, Eli Lilly, Genentech, Gilead Sciences, 
Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Takeda. DTR has received grant support from Takeda, 
and has served as a consultant for Abbvie, Abivax SA, Altrubio, Athos 
Therapeutics, Inc, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celltrion, 
Connect BioPharma, Eli Lilly & Co., Genentech (Roche) Inc., Gilead Sciences, 
Iterative Health, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co., 
Mirador Therapeutics, Pfizer, Sanofi, Spyre, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Tr1X, Inc., 
Vedanta Biosciences, Ventyx and ZS Associates, Inc. He is also on the Board of 
Directors for Cornerstones Health (non-profit), iUSCAN (non-profit). Ethical 
approval: This retrospective study was conducted in accordance with ethical 
standards outlined by the institutional and national research committee and the 
1964 Helsinki Declaration. Approval was received from the Institutional Review 
Board at the University of Chicago for the real-world prospective database as 
part of the IBD Catalyst Project.


21. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2026 Jul 1;42(4):255-262. doi: 
10.1097/MOG.0000000000001182. Epub 2026 Jun 4.

The complement system in inflammatory bowel disease: from early observations to 
emerging frontiers.

Ramirez Reyes B(1), Kulkarni D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of 
California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The complement system is one of the most evolutionarily 
conserved arms of innate immunity and has re-emerged as an important regulator 
of intestinal inflammation in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Early 
observations from the mid-1970 s such as complement deposition in diseased bowel 
tissue and elevated serum complement levels in patients with ulcerative colitis 
and Crohn's disease have evolved into a nuanced understanding of how individual 
complement components can exert both protective and pathogenic effects in IBD. 
This review highlights recent advances in complement biology and examines how 
complement shapes intestinal immune responses, particularly in the setting of 
ongoing inflammation.
RECENT FINDINGS: The complement system consists of more than 60 proteins that 
act as rapid first responders to infection. Although traditionally considered 
primarily liver-derived circulating effectors, recent work has demonstrated 
local synthesis and activation of key complement components at mucosal sites, 
including the colon. In parallel, genome-wide association studies have 
identified variants in complement genes associated with severe IBD 
complications. Collectively, these findings reveal a dichotomous role for 
complement in IBD, whereby excessive activation promotes inflammation, while 
impaired function compromises host defense and worsens disease outcomes.
SUMMARY: Complement-targeted therapies have been effective in other diseases but 
have not yet translated to IBD. A deeper understanding of context-dependent 
protective versus pathogenic complement functions will be essential for 
developing future therapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000001182
PMID: 42239985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Front Gastroenterol (Lausanne). 2026 May 18;5:1790420. doi: 
10.3389/fgstr.2026.1790420. eCollection 2026.

GLP-1 and GLP-2 as intestinal reparative therapies in inflammatory bowel 
disease: mechanisms, translation, and clinical opportunity.

Lee JJ(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Bajgain P(3)(4), Lightner AL(1)(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Scripps Clinic, La Jolla, CA, United 
States.
(2)Naval Medical Center San Diego, Department of Surgery, San Diego, CA, United 
States.
(3)Department of Molecular & Cellular Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, 
La Jolla, CA, United States.
(4)Department of Immunology and Microbiology, The Scripps Research Institute, La 
Jolla, CA, United States.
(5)Calibr-Skaggs, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA, United States.

Inflammatory bowel disease remains a chronic condition in which a substantial 
proportion of patients fail to achieve durable clinical remission despite 
advances in therapy. Although the treatment landscape has expanded to include 
biologics and small-molecule agents, contemporary management is increasingly 
focused on altering the course of the disease rather than relying on symptom 
control alone. Central to this shift is the recognition that intestinal 
reparative therapy, defined by objective endpoints such as endoscopic and 
histologic healing, is strongly associated with improved long-term outcomes. 
Emerging mechanistic data highlight epithelial repair pathways as actionable 
therapeutic targets. Among these, glucagon-like peptides secreted by intestinal 
enteroendocrine cells have gained attention for their roles in epithelial 
integrity and inflammation modulation. This review synthesizes basic science and 
translational evidence supporting glucagon-like peptide-1, glucagon-like 
peptide-2, and dipeptidyl peptidase-IV inhibition as emerging therapeutic 
concepts in inflammatory bowel disease. Furthermore, it provides a critical 
appraisal of recent human observational data, distinguishing metabolic benefits 
from intrinsic disease-modifying effects, and outlines the practical clinical 
friction points and prospective trials necessary to validate these pathways in 
future treatment paradigms.

Copyright © 2026 Lee, Bajgain and Lightner.

DOI: 10.3389/fgstr.2026.1790420
PMCID: PMC13222807
PMID: 42231903

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


23. Rev Prat. 2026 May;76(5):531-535.

[Diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for small-bowel gastrointestinal bleeding 
when initial upper endoscopy and colonoscopy are unremarkable].

[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]

Houdeville C(1), Becq A(2).

Author information:
(1)Service d'endoscopie digestive, Sorbonne Université, hôpital Saint-Antoine, 
AP-HP, Paris,  France.
(2)Service de gastroentérologie, Université Paris Est Créteil, hôpital 
Henri-Mondor, AP-HP, Créteil, France.

Suspected small bowel bleeding is defined as a gastrointestinal bleeding, overt 
or occult (iron-deficiency anemia), with unremarkable high-quality upper 
endoscopy and colonoscopy. The main causes are vascular lesions (angiodysplasia) 
and inflammatory lesions (Crohn's disease). Diagnosis is primarily based on 
capsule endoscopy, which has an optimal yield if performed within 48 hours on 
bleeding onset. Deep enteroscopy often allows targeted treatment, but its 
availability is limited. If the capsule endoscopy is not contributive as well, 
the bleeding is referred to as obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. Management is 
not consensual. Treatment of the anemia and surveillance may be an option. It is 
reasonable course of action to repeat endoscopies, optimizing them, particularly 
in the event of recurrence.

Publisher: La suspicion de saignement de l’intestin grêle est définie par une 
hémorragie d’allure digestive, extériorisée ou non (anémie ferriprive), sans 
cause identifiée après réalisation d’une endoscopie haute et d’une coloscopie de 
bonne qualité. Les principales causes sont les lésions vasculaires 
(angiodysplasies). Le diagnostic repose principalement sur la vidéocapsule 
endoscopique, dont le rendement est optimal si cet examen est réalisé dans les 
quarante-huit heures. L’entéroscopie profonde permet souvent un traitement 
ciblé, mais sa disponibilité est limitée. Quand aucune cause n’est trouvée 
malgré une première série d’endoscopies (haute, coloscopie et vidéocapsule), on 
parle de saignement digestif inexpliqué (ou obscur). La conduite à tenir n’est 
alors pas consensuelle. La correction de l’anémie assortie d’une surveillance 
clinique peut être une option. Refaire les examens, en les optimisant, notamment 
en cas de récidive, est raisonnable.

PMID: 42227624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Les auteurs déclarent n’avoir aucun lien 
d’intérêts.


24. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2026 Jun 1:izag052. doi: 10.1093/ibd/izag052. Online ahead
of  print.

Ultrasound criteria for transmural healing and response in Crohn's disease: a 
systematic review of definitions and thresholds.

St-Pierre J(1), Delisle M(2), Miyatani Y(3), Falloon K(4), Ernest-Suarez K(5), 
Pabla B(6), Huynh H(7), Maracle B(1), Kung JY(8), Cleveland N(9), Rubin DT(9), 
Dolinger M(10), Novak K(1), Damas O(11), Melmed GY(12), Lu C(1), Kellar 
A(9)(13).

Author information:
(1)IBD Unit, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of 
Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(2)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, QC, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of 
Hawai'i, Honolulu, HI, United States.
(4)Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Digestive Disease and Surgery 
Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, United States.
(5)Faculty of Medicine, University of Costa Rica, San José, Costa Rica.
(6)Vanderbilt Health, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, United States.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine & Dentistry, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(8)Geoffrey & Robyn Sperber Health Sciences Library, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, AB, Canada.
(9)University of Chicago Medicine Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, Chicago, 
IL, United States.
(10)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, NYU 
Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
(11)Division of Digestive Health and Liver Diseases, University of Miami, Miami, 
FL, United States.
(12)Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States.
(13)Department of Pediatrics, Section of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and 
Nutrition, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.

BACKGROUND: Transmural healing (TMH) indicates resolution of inflammation in all 
bowel wall layers and is an emerging therapeutic target in Crohn's disease (CD). 
Standardized sonographic criteria for TMH and early improvement, termed 
Transmural Response (TMR), have not been established. This systematic review 
synthesizes published definitions to provide an up-to-date overview of the 
current evidence base for intestinal ultrasound (IUS)-based assessment in CD.
METHODS: This systematic review was conducted in accordance with the Preferred 
Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. 
Comprehensive searches of databases identified full-text articles that 
pre-specified TMH, TMR or normal/abnormal bowel on trans-abdominal IUS in 
pediatric or adult participants with CD. Definitions were summarized 
descriptively.
RESULTS: Eighty-three full-text studies (8033 patients) met eligibility 
criteria; 39 (47%) defined TMH and 22 (27%) defined TMR. TMH definitions most 
often included bowel-wall thickness (BWT) ≤ 3mm (31/39, 79%), absent or minimal 
Doppler flow (25/39, 64%), and preserved bowel wall stratification (10/39, 26%). 
All TMR definitions required BWT reduction, but thresholds varied (absolute ≥ 1 
mm or relative ≥ 25% in 16/22, 73%). Nine studies (9/22, 41%) also required 
Doppler flow improvement and 4/22 (18%) included additional criteria. 
Pediatric-specific criteria were reported in 2 TMH and one TMR studies, 
extrapolating from adult BWT values. Heterogeneity precluded quantitative 
pooling.
CONCLUSIONS: Standardized IUS definitions of TMH and TMR in CD are lacking. 
Consistent, validated criteria are essential to enable reproducible ultrasound 
endpoints, support treat-to-target strategies, and facilitate incorporation of 
IUS into CD clinical trials and routine care.

Plain Language Summary: This systematic review synthesizes all published 
intestinal ultrasound definitions of transmural healing and transmural response 
in Crohn’s disease, demonstrating substantial heterogeneity and identifying 
bowel wall thickness and Doppler signal as core parameters to inform 
standardized, consensus-driven ultrasound endpoints.

© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s 
& Colitis Foundation.

DOI: 10.1093/ibd/izag052
PMID: 42222916


25. Dig Dis Sci. 2026 May 29. doi: 10.1007/s10620-026-10016-6. Online ahead of 
print.

ABCG2 Upregulation Involving AKT/NF-κB Signaling Contributes to Intestinal 
Barrier Dysfunction in Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Shi P(#)(1)(2), Deng J(#)(3), Song X(#)(4), Tang L(1)(2), Guo H(4), Yin F(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Target-Based Drug Discovery and Research, 
Chongqing University of Technology, Chongqing, 400054, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)College of Pharmacy and Bioengineering, Chongqing University of Technology, 
Chongqing, 400054, People's Republic of China.
(3)Chongqing Academy of Chinese Materia Medica, Chongqing University of Chinese 
Medicine, Chongqing, 400065, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Chongqing General Hospital, University of 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chongqing, 401147, People's Republic of China.
(5)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Target-Based Drug Discovery and Research, 
Chongqing University of Technology, Chongqing, 400054, People's Republic of 
China. fyin@cqut.edu.cn.
(6)College of Pharmacy and Bioengineering, Chongqing University of Technology, 
Chongqing, 400054, People's Republic of China. fyin@cqut.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Previous investigations demonstrated significant upregulation of 
ATP-binding cassette subfamily G member 2 (ABCG2) in renal, hepatic, colonic, 
and intestinal tissues within a 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid 
(TNBS)-induced murine model of Crohn's disease (CD). Nevertheless, the 
regulatory mechanisms governing ABCG2 expression within inflammatory 
microenvironments and its consequent impact on intestinal barrier integrity 
remain incompletely elucidated.
AIMS: This study aimed to elucidate the signaling pathway responsible for ABCG2 
upregulation under inflammatory conditions and to investigate the functional 
role of ABCG2 in intestinal barrier integrity both in vitro and in vivo.
METHODS: Intestinal epithelial barrier integrity was evaluated by measuring 
transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), paracellular permeability to 
fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-dextran, and immunofluorescence/immunoblot 
analysis of tight junction proteins. Abcg2-/- mice were utilized to evaluate the 
contribution of ABCG2 to intestinal barrier homeostasis.
RESULTS: ABCG2 expression was observed to be significantly elevated in 
lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated intestinal epithelial cells. This induction 
coincided with enhanced phosphorylation of AKT and P65. Pharmacological 
inhibition of AKT (LY294002) or NF-κB (BAY117082) attenuated the LPS-mediated 
upregulation of ABCG2. Functional assessments revealed that pharmacological 
inhibition of ABCG2 (using Ko143) or its genetic ablation enhanced intestinal 
barrier integrity. This was evidenced by increased TEER, reduced permeability to 
FITC-dextran, and restored expression of key tight junction proteins (ZO-1, 
occludin, and claudin-1) following LPS challenge. Specifically, Abcg2 knockout 
improved colon length, preserved mucosal architectural integrity, and diminished 
inflammatory cell infiltration in both dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-UC and 
TNBS-induced CD models.
CONCLUSIONS: ABCG2 reprents a promising therapeutic target for inflammatory 
bowel disease (IBD), particularly in patient populations exhibiting dysregulated 
transporter activity or genetic variants influencing drug response.

© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-026-10016-6
PMID: 42213380

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


26. Drug Deliv. 2026 Dec 31;33(1):2680354. doi: 10.1080/10717544.2026.2680354.
Epub  2026 May 29.

Human factors validation study of a disposable autoinjector (Bmab 1200 
autoinjector) for subcutaneous delivery of Ustekinumab.

Moses K S(1), Kamaraj R(1), Konda Ramachary Subramanian S(1).

Author information:
(1)Devices R&D, Biocon Biologics Limited, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.

Ustekinumab is approved for treating moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, 
psoriatic arthritis, Crohn's disease, and ulcerative colitis. The Bmab 1200 
autoinjector is a simple, two-step device for subcutaneous ustekinumab 
biosimilar delivery. This was an in vitro, nonclinical, simulated-use human 
factors validation study to evaluate if intended users could safely and 
effectively use it. Ninety participants (recruited via purposive sampling) were 
enrolled (mean age: 43 years; range: 12-72 years), including adult and 
adolescent patients, lay caregivers, and healthcare professionals. Without 
formal training, participants performed simulated injections into foam pads. 
Test personnel observed, documented, debriefed, and reported any errors made by 
participants while completing assigned tasks and sub-tasks. Each participant was 
observed throughout the session and observational and performance data were 
collected in real time by data logger. Performance measures included injection 
success rates, use errors, and 24 knowledge tasks. Across these knowledge tasks, 
participants were required to locate, identify, and understand 28 distinct 
measures. Participants also provided feedback on usability and confidence 
levels. All participants (100%) completed unaided dose injections. A total of 20 
use errors were documented: hand hygiene (n = 8), site preparation (n = 5), and 
device handling (n = 7), none causing device damage or failed delivery. The 
knowledge task success rate was 99.6% (2,511/2,520 measures). Nine use errors 
(study artifacts or inattention to instructions) occurred only among caregivers. 
All participants expressed confidence in safe dosing and found the device 
user-friendly. The Bmab 1200 autoinjector demonstrated high usability and safety 
across diverse users for ustekinumab biosimilar delivery in chronic autoimmune 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1080/10717544.2026.2680354
PMCID: PMC13224692
PMID: 42212686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SMK, RK, and SKRS are employees of Biocon 
Biologics Limited. SMK and RK are eligible for stock and stock options, and SKRS 
holds stocks of Biocon.


27. Gut. 2026 May 28:gutjnl-2025-337981. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2025-337981. Online 
ahead of print.

From preclinical phase of Crohn's disease to postoperative recurrence: shared 
mechanisms and potential interventions.

Chen R(1)(2), Turpin W(1)(3), Allez M(4)(5), Silverberg MS(1)(2), Croitoru 
K(1)(2), Lee SH(6)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(2)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Centre, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Nutritional Sciences Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(5)APHP, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada sun-ho.lee@sinaihealth.ca.

Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal 
tract with high risk of surgery. Despite advances in medical treatment, of those 
patients who undergo ileocolonic resections, up to 70% of patients experience 
postoperative recurrence (POR) within 1 year of surgery. This underscores the 
need for a better understanding of the pathogenesis of POR. We hypothesise that 
the transient 'disease-free' state following surgical resection biologically 
mirrors the earliest preclinical stages of new-onset CD and that shared 
biomarkers across preclinical and postoperative settings reflect common 
pathogenic pathways. Identifying these shared signatures may offer a unique 
opportunity to elucidate mechanisms underlying both disease initiation and 
recurrence and to inform strategies aimed at prevention of new onset CD as well 
as POR. In this review, we synthesise insights from recent biomarker and 
multiomics studies spanning preclinical and postoperative CD cohorts. We 
highlight predictive biomarkers shared across CD onset and POR, including 
genetic variants, immune mediators such as CXCL9 and interleukin 6, microbial 
signatures involving Faecalibacterium and Ruminococcus and markers of gut 
barrier dysfunction and systemic inflammation. We also discuss emerging omics 
approaches including glycomics, urine metabolomics and high-dimensional 
immunophenotyping that may further refine risk stratification, capture 
pathogenic heterogeneity and provide mechanistic insight into 
host-microbe-immune interactions. Finally, we outline potential intervention 
strategies targeting these shared pathways and propose that the postoperative 
setting could be a pragmatic human model to test biomarker-guided preventive 
approaches applicable across the CD spectrum.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2025-337981
PMID: 42209193

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: MA received financial 
support for research from Janssen, Takeda, Genentech/Roche; consultant fees from 
AbbVie, Amgen, Astra Zeneca, Biogen, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Celgene, Celsius, Celltrion, Egle Therapeutics, Endpoint health, Ferring, 
Galapagos, Genentech, IQVIA, Janssen, Lilly, MSD, Novartis, Owkin, Pfizer, 
Roche, Takeda, Tillots; and speakers fees from AbbVie, Galapagos, Genentech, 
Janssen, Pfizer, Takeda and Tillots. MSS received research support and 
consulting fees from Janssen, AbbVie, Takeda, Pfizer and Prometheus. KC has 
received research support from AbbVie and Janssen and advisory board or travel 
support from Pfizer, Lilly, AbbVie, Janssen, Amgen, Lilly, Celltrion, Sandoz and 
Takeda. S-HL received consultant or speaker fees from Janssen, AbbVie, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Celltrion, Takeda, Fresenius Kabi and received research support 
from Janssen, AbbVie and Takeda.


28. Ther Adv Gastroenterol. 2026 May 25;19:17562848261448962. doi: 
10.1177/17562848261448962. eCollection 2026.

A decade of clinical data with vedolizumab: the past, present, and future.

Jairath V(1)(2), Armuzzi A(3)(4), Agboton C(5), Bressler B(6), Danese S(7), 
Dulai PS(8), Meyer M(9), Bautista IR(10), Atreya R(11), Feagan BG(1)(2)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Western University, London, ON, Canada.
(2)Medical Research and Development, Alimentiv, London, ON, Canada.
(3)IBD Center, IRCCS Humanitas Research Hospital, Rozzano, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Pieve Emanuele, 
Milan, Italy.
(5)Global Medical Affairs, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, 125 Binney Street, Cambridge, 
MA 02142, USA.
(6)St Paul's Hospital, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(7)Gastroenterology and Endoscopy, IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele and University 
Vita Salute San Raffaele, Milan, Italy.
(8)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Northwestern University, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(9)Medical Affairs, Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(10)Global Medical Affairs, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(11)First Department of Medicine, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(12)Department of Medicine, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western 
University, London, ON, Canada.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the 
gastrointestinal tract, typically classified as either ulcerative colitis (UC) 
or Crohn's disease (CD). The treatment approaches for both UC and CD have 
changed substantially over the last 10 years, going from step-up to top-down 
approaches and culminating in treat-to-target algorithms. In addition to the 
evolution of treatment strategies for IBD, disease endpoints have also changed 
from symptom-based outcomes to more objective measures, including endoscopy, 
with histology and transmural healing currently under investigation. In this 
narrative review, we describe recent advances in the treatment of patients with 
IBD, with a focus on vedolizumab, the first and only anti-lymphocyte trafficking 
agent approved as a gut-selective biologic for induction and maintenance therapy 
in IBD. Furthermore, with the approval of more biologic agents, there remains a 
need to determine the sequence in which biologics should be used, both 
individually and in combination. Substantial progress has been made in the last 
decade, and even though biomarkers and algorithmic trials have been largely 
disappointing, other avenues, such as clinical decision support tools, 
prognostic tools, and new approaches incorporating computational biology, have 
the potential to more effectively curate a tailored approach to IBD therapy in 
the coming years.

Plain Language Summary: A decade of progress: how vedolizumab has changed 
research and medical care for people with inflammatory bowel disease 
Inflammatory bowel disease, also known as IBD, is a life-long illness caused by 
inflammation of the gut. This means that the gut becomes swollen and irritated. 
For reasons we don’t understand, the immune system makes gut inflammation worse 
over time. In 2014, a medication called vedolizumab was approved for IBD. 
Vedolizumab works by preventing certain immune cells from reaching the gut, 
which can help reduce inflammation. This review describes improvements in IBD 
treatment over the last 10 years, with a focus on vedolizumab. Studies have 
shown that a person’s symptoms don’t always tell doctors if their IBD is getting 
better or worse. Instead, experts say that treatments should aim to heal the 
gut, not just reduce symptoms of IBD. Many studies using vedolizumab have looked 
at gut healing in people with IBD. Also, many new medications for IBD have 
become available in the last decade. However, doctors need better guidance on 
when to use each medication, in what order, and whether they can be used 
together. Research has looked at how well these medications, including 
vedolizumab, work and how safe they are. This information can help doctors 
create better step-by-step treatment plans for people with IBD. Looking to the 
future, doctors hope to choose medications based on what will work best for each 
person. This is called precision medicine. To support this, researchers have 
created a tool that can help doctors predict how well someone will respond to 
vedolizumab by using details about their medical history. Overall, our 
understanding of IBD and how to treat it has changed a lot in the last 10 years. 
Vedolizumab will continue to play an important role in IBD research and patient 
care.

© The Author(s), 2026.

DOI: 10.1177/17562848261448962
PMCID: PMC13201942
PMID: 42205859

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared the following potential 
conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or 
publication of this article: A.A. has received consulting fees from AbbVie, 
Abivax, Alfa Sigma, AstraZeneca, Biogen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Celltrion, Eli-Lilly, Enthera, Ferring, Galapagos, Gilead, Giuliani, 
Janssen, Lionhealth, MSD, Nestlé, Pfizer, Protagonist Therapeutics, Roche, 
Samsung Bioepis, Sanofi, Sandoz, Takeda, Teva Pharmaceuticals, Tillots Pharma; 
speaker’s fees from AbbVie, Abivax, AG Pharma, Alfa Sigma, Biogen, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Celltrion, Eli Lilly, Ferring, Galapagos, Gilead, Janssen, Lionhealth, 
MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Samsung Bioepis, Sandoz, Takeda, Teva 
Pharmaceuticals; and research support from Biogen, MSD, Takeda, and Pfizer. R.A. 
received lecture/consulting fees from AbbVie, Abivax, AlfaSigma, AstraZeneca, 
Biogen, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celltrion Healthcare, Dr Falk Pharma, InDex 
Pharmaceuticals, Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, MSD, Roche Pharma, and Takeda Pharma. 
B.B. is an advisor/speaker for AbbVie, Bristol Myers Squibb, Ferring, Janssen, 
Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, and Takeda; advisor for Alimentiv, Allergan, Amgen, 
AMT, Bausch Health, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, Fresenius Kabi, Genentech, 
Gilead, Iterative Scopes, Merck, Microbiome Insights, Mylan, Pendopharm, and 
Protagonist; has received research support from AbbVie, Alvine, Amgen, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celgene, Genentech, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Janssen, Merck, and Qu Biologic; and holds stock options in Qu Biologic. S.D. 
received lecture/consulting fees from AbbVie, Allergan, Biogen, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Celgene, Celltrion, Ferring, Hospira, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Merck 
Sharp & Dohme, Mundipharma, Pfizer, Sandoz, Takeda, TiGenix, UCB, and Vifor. 
P.S.D. received consulting and/or research support: AbbVie, Abivax, Adiso, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Geneoscopy, GSK, Janssen, Lilly, Pfizer, Roivant, Takeda. 
B.G.F. is a consultant for AbbVie, AdMIRx, Agomab, Akebia, Alivio Therapeutics, 
Allakos, Amgen, Applied Molecular Transport, Arena, Avir, Azora Therapeutics, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Boston Pharma, Celgene/Bristol Myers Squibb, Connect 
Biopharma, Cytoki, Disc Medicine, Everest Clinical Research, Eli Lilly, 
Equillium, Ferring, Galapagos, Galen Atlantica, Genentech/Roche, Gilead, 
Glenmark, Gossamer Bio, GlaxoSmithKline, Hoffmann-La Roche, HotSpot 
Therapeutics, InDex Pharma, ImmunExt, Intact Therapeutics, Janssen, Japan 
Tobacco, Kaleido Biosciences, Leadiant Biosciences, Millennium, Mirobio, Morphic 
Therapeutic, Mylan, OM Pharma, Origo Biopharma, Otsuka, Pandion Therapeutics, 
Pfizer, Prometheus Therapeutics and Diagnostics, Progenity, PTM Therapeutics, 
Q32 Bio, Rebiotix, RedHill Biopharma, Redx, Sandoz, Sanofi, Seres Therapeutics, 
Surrozen, Takeda, Teva, Thelium, Theravance, TiGenix, Tillotts, UCB, VHsquared, 
Viatris, Ysios, and Zealand Pharma; serving on speaker’s bureaus for AbbVie, 
Janssen, and Takeda; being a member of scientific advisory boards for AbbVie, 
Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Celgene/BMS, Ecor1Capital, Genentech/Roche, 
GlaxoSmithKline, InDex, Janssen, Morphic, Novartis, Origo Biopharma, Pfizer, 
Progenity, Prometheus, Takeda, Teva, and Tillotts; being a member of the board 
of directors for Alimentiv (Senior Scientific Director); and holds stock/is a 
shareholder in Gossamer Pharma. V.J. has received consulting/advisory board fees 
from AbbVie, Alimentiv, Arena pharmaceuticals, Asahi Kasei Pharma, Asieris, 
Astra Zeneca, Avoro Capital, Bristol Myers Squibb, Celltrion, Eli Lilly, 
Endpoint Health, Enthera, Ferring, Flagship Pioneering, Fresenius Kabi, 
Galapagos, Gilde Healthcare, GlaxoSmithKline, Genentech, Gilead, Innomar, JAMP, 
Janssen, Merck, Metacrine, Mylan, MRM Health, Pandion, Pendopharm, Pfizer, 
Protagonist, Prometheus Biosciences, Reistone Biopharma, Roche, Roivant, Sandoz, 
Second Genome, Sorriso, Synedgen, Takeda, TD Securities, Teva, Topivert, Ventyx, 
Vividion; speaker’s fees from AbbVie, Ferring, Bristol Myers Squibb, Galapagos, 
Janssen Pfizer Shire, Takeda, and Fresenius Kabi. C.A., M.M., and I.R.B. are 
employees of Takeda and hold Takeda stock/stock options.


29. Nutrition. 2026 Sep;149:113262. doi: 10.1016/j.nut.2026.113262. Epub 2026 Apr
 27.

Role of creatine supplementation in intestinal health: a narrative review of its 
antioxidant and anti-inflammatory potential.

Oliveira JT(1), Pieniz S(2).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Nutrition and Food, Federal University of Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
(2)Postgraduate Program in Nutrition and Food, Federal University of Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Electronic address: 
nutrisimone@yahoo.com.br.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are chronic, idiopathic disorders of the 
gastrointestinal tract, classified as ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. 
The most common pharmacological therapies include aminosalicylates, 
glucocorticoids, immunosuppressants, and targeted biological therapies. However, 
due to their many potential adverse effects, natural compounds such as creatine 
have also gained attention. Creatine is a compound formed from the amino acids 
arginine, glycine, and methionine, and can be synthesized endogenously or 
obtained through food or supplements. Because of its ability to improve cellular 
energy status, and its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, the aim of 
this study was to assess its therapeutic potential in IBD and other associated 
clinical disorders. A literature review was conducted using the PubMed, 
ScienceDirect and Google Scholar databases. Based on the data found, creatine 
supplementation demonstrated therapeutic potential in restoring intestinal 
homeostasis, as well as significant antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity. 
Therefore, this compound should to be considered a promising therapeutic agent 
in IBD, and further studies are needed.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nut.2026.113262
PMID: 42202735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


30. Immunol Invest. 2026 May 27:1-19. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2026.2677601. Online 
ahead of print.

Reduced miR-193a-3p Modulates Cell Proliferation and Apoptosis in Inflammatory 
Bowel Disease via Targeting ETS1.

Cheng H(1), Xiao L(2), Xu T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya 
School of Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, China.
(3)Department of Medical Laboratory Medicine, Chongqing University FuLing 
Hospital, Chongqing, China.

BACKGROUND: Multiple findings have demonstrated that microRNAs (miRNAs) have a 
profound impact on inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) pathogenesis. This research 
was conceived to elucidate the regulatory function of miR-193a-3p in IBDby 
targeting ETS proto‑oncogene 1 and explore its potential diagnostic value.
METHODS: Expression of miR-193a-3p was determined by reverse transcription 
quantitative real‑time polymerase-chain reaction (RT‑qPCR). Cell viability, 
apoptosis, and inflammatory responses were measured in lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS)-stimulated human normal colonic epithelial FHC cells using the cell 
counting kit‑8 (CCK‑8) assay, flow cytometry, and enzyme‑linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA), respectively. The dual-luciferase reporter's assay verified the 
targeting relationship.
RESULTS: miR-193a-3p was downregulated whereas ETS1 was upregulated in patients 
with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Its expression was negatively correlated 
with IBD severity in both ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD). In 
vitro, elevated miR-193a-3p alleviated LPS-induced inflammation and apoptosis 
and promoted cell proliferation. A negative regulatory relationship between 
miR-193a-3p and ETS1 was validated experimentally. miR-193a-3p overexpression 
inhibited LPS-mediated upregulation of ETS1. In addition, ETS1 overexpression 
suppressed cell proliferation and facilitated inflammation and cell apoptosis.
CONCLUSION: miR-193a-3p was involved in the pathogenesis of IBD by directly 
targeting ETS1.

DOI: 10.1080/08820139.2026.2677601
PMID: 42200355


31. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2026 May 8;19(5):738. doi: 10.3390/ph19050738.

Plasma Tissue Factor Pathway Inhibitor Levels Correlate with Disease Activity 
and Are Associated with Altered Thrombin Generation in Pediatric Inflammatory 
Bowel Disease.

Meyer A(1), Kohlmaier B(1), Bauer T(1), Gallistl S(1), Muntean W(1), Silbernagel 
B(2), Haidl H(1), Schlagenhauf A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Pediatrics, Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent 
Medicine, Medical University of Graz, 8036 Graz, Austria.
(2)Division of Haematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical University 
of Graz, 8036 Graz, Austria.

Background: Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) exhibit a 
hypercoagulable state with increased thrombotic risk. Previous studies 
demonstrated elevated thrombin generation in pediatric IBD, paradoxically 
accompanied by prolonged lag time during active disease. We hypothesized that 
elevated tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) levels during active 
inflammation contribute to this paradox. Methods: We prospectively enrolled 25 
pediatric patients (10 Crohn's disease [CD], 15 ulcerative colitis [UC]) aged 
7-18 years with newly diagnosed IBD. Blood samples were collected at diagnosis 
and in remission. Thrombin generation was assessed using calibrated automated 
thrombography. Plasma levels of TFPI, tissue factor activity (TFA), vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) were measured. 
Results: TFPI levels correlated positively with thrombin generation lag time (r 
= 0.43, padj < 0.05) and disease activity scores (r = 0.54, padj < 0.05) in 
patients with active disease (PCDAI/PUCAI > 0). Longitudinal analysis of 16 
patients achieving remission revealed elevated TFPI and prolonged lag time 
during active disease compared to quiescence (both padj < 0.05), while TFA did 
not change significantly. VEGF decreased significantly upon remission (padj < 
0.05), whereas IL-6 showed no significant change. Conclusions: Elevated TFPI 
levels during active IBD likely contribute to the paradoxical prolongation of 
thrombin generation lag time. TFPI normalization upon remission reflects 
vascular inflammation resolution, suggesting TFPI as a potential biomarker and 
therapeutic target.

DOI: 10.3390/ph19050738
PMCID: PMC13210234
PMID: 42198412

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests. The 
funding sources were not involved in the conceptual design of the project nor 
the data analysis or intellectual contents submitted for publication.


32. Polymers (Basel). 2026 May 7;18(10):1146. doi: 10.3390/polym18101146.

Enzyme-Responsive Polymeric Drug Delivery Systems for the Treatment of 
Inflammatory Bowel Diseases: A Review.

Li J(1), Yu X(1), Huang D(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Biological Science and Engineering, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou 
350108, China.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including Crohn's disease and ulcerative 
colitis, is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract that 
imposes an increasing global health burden. Conventional pharmacological 
treatments are often limited by systemic side effects and insufficient drug 
accumulation at inflamed intestinal sites. Enzyme-responsive polymeric drug 
delivery systems have emerged as a promising strategy to overcome these 
limitations by enabling site-specific and controlled drug release within the 
pathological microenvironment of the colon. This review summarizes recent 
advances in enzyme-responsive polymeric platforms designed for IBD therapy. We 
first discuss the altered enzymatic landscape in the intestinal microenvironment 
of IBD, including host-derived inflammatory enzymes such as esterases, matrix 
metalloproteinases, and hyaluronidase, as well as microbiota-derived enzymes 
such as azoreductase, cellulase, and amylase. These enzymes provide intrinsic 
biological triggers for selective polymer degradation and drug release. We then 
categorize enzyme-responsive polymeric delivery systems according to the enzymes 
involved and highlight representative material design strategies, including 
polymer prodrugs, core-shell nanocarriers, enzyme-degradable hydrogels, and 
polysaccharide-based carriers. Particular emphasis is placed on the 
multifunctional roles of polymers that enable targeted delivery, mucosal 
adhesion, and therapeutic synergy through bioactive degradation products. 
Finally, current challenges and future directions toward 
multi-stimuli-responsive systems and clinically translatable polymeric 
nanomedicine for precision IBD therapy are discussed.

DOI: 10.3390/polym18101146
PMCID: PMC13210592
PMID: 42198087

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


33. Diagnostics (Basel). 2026 May 19;16(10):1542. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics16101542.

Fibroblast Activation Protein Inhibitor (FAPI) PET: A Scoping Review of Emerging 
Oncologic and Fibroinflammatory Applications.

Panagiotidis E(1), Koinis F(2), Zhang-Yin J(3), Angelidis G(1), Valotassiou 
V(1), Tsougos I(4), Kotsakis A(2), Georgoulias P(1).

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Medicine Laboratory, University Hospital of Larissa, 413 34 Larissa, 
Greece.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, University Hospital of Larissa, 413 34 
Larissa, Greece.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Clinique Sud Luxembourg, Vivalia, 6700 Arlon, 
Belgium.
(4)Medical Physics Laboratory, University Hospital of Larissa, 413 34 Larissa, 
Greece.

This scoping review was conducted in accordance with the Preferred Reporting 
Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses Extension for Scoping Reviews 
(PRISMA-ScR) guidelines. It summarizes advances in fibroblast activation protein 
inhibitor (FAPI) positron emission tomography (PET) for oncologic and 
fibroinflammatory diseases. FAP is expressed broadly on activated mesenchymal 
cells-including cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and myofibroblasts within 
desmoplastic tumor stroma, FAP-positive tumor cells in selected sarcomas, and 
activated fibroblasts in chronic fibroinflammatory disorders such as rheumatoid 
arthritis, Crohn's disease, and organ fibrosis. By targeting these activated 
fibroblasts, [68Ga]- and [18F]-labeled FAPI tracers provide high 
tumor-to-background contrast, particularly in desmoplastic and stromal-rich 
cancers. Compared with [18F]FDG, FAPI PET demonstrates superior lesion 
conspicuity in selected malignancies and enables a streamlined, non-fasting 
imaging workflow. Beyond oncology, FAPI PET is emerging as a promising tool for 
assessing cardiac fibrosis, pulmonary inflammation, and autoimmune conditions 
characterized by fibroblast activation. A systematic literature search of PubMed 
and Scopus was performed for peer-reviewed publications from 1 January 2018 to 
28 February 2026. Inclusion criteria encompassed original studies, systematic 
reviews, meta-analyses, clinical guidelines, case series, and case reports 
reporting on FAPI-targeted PET in human subjects or translational models, 
published in English. After screening, 256 sources met the eligibility criteria 
and are included. The development of standardized SNMMI/EANM imaging protocols, 
along with ongoing multicenter trials and the first prospective phase 2 clinical 
trial of 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET with histopathological confirmation, now supports the 
reproducible implementation of FAPI PET across institutions. FAPI PET 
demonstrates strong translational potential, largely due to its favorable 
biodistribution, safety profile, and theranostic flexibility. However, its 
widespread use in routine clinical practice is contingent upon large-scale 
clinical validation, structured reader training, and formal regulatory approval. 
In conclusion, FAPI PET represents a maturing molecular imaging platform 
targeting activated fibroblasts across oncologic and fibroinflammatory diseases. 
Its widespread adoption into clinical practice requires large-scale prospective 
trials, reader training, standardized reporting, and regulatory approval-all of 
which are now actively underway.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics16101542
PMCID: PMC13206015
PMID: 42196913

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


34. Biomolecules. 2026 May 7;16(5):694. doi: 10.3390/biom16050694.

Mcl1 as a Molecular Switch Linking Inflammatory Bowel Diseases to Colorectal 
Tumorigenesis.

Elshazly AM(1)(2)(3), Li J(4), Yang GY(1)(5), Radhakrishnan SK(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 
23298, USA.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Virginia Commonwealth University, 
Richmond, VA 23298, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kafrelsheikh 
University, Kafrelsheikh 33516, Egypt.
(4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, VA 23298, USA.
(5)Massey Comprehensive Cancer Center, Virginia Commonwealth University, 
Richmond, VA 23298, USA.

The maintenance of gastrointestinal homeostasis relies on a tightly coordinated 
interplay between the intestinal epithelium, the immune system, and the 
commensal microbiome. Disruption of this balance underlies inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD), encompassing Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, and is 
characterized by chronic, relapsing mucosal inflammation driven by genetic 
susceptibility, environmental factors, immune dysregulation, and microbial 
imbalance. Persistent inflammation promotes repeated cycles of epithelial injury 
and aberrant repair, creating a permissive environment for dysplasia and the 
development of colitis-associated cancer, most notably colorectal carcinoma. 
Recent evidence identifies the anti-apoptotic regulator myeloid cell leukemia-1 
(Mcl1) as a critical determinant of epithelial integrity and cellular turnover 
during mucosal stress. Loss or destabilization of Mcl1 disrupts epithelial 
homeostasis, amplifies inflammatory signaling, and accelerates tumor initiation, 
whereas its adaptive upregulation in established malignancy promotes tumor cell 
survival, metabolic fitness, and therapeutic resistance. Thus, Mcl1 functions as 
a context-dependent molecular switch via restraining malignant transformation 
during chronic inflammation while supporting tumor progression once neoplasia is 
established. This functional duality positions Mcl1 as both a biomarker of 
disease progression and a therapeutically actionable vulnerability. In this 
review, we synthesize recent advances elucidating how Mcl1 integrates epithelial 
cell-fate decisions, immune signaling and tumor evolution across the IBD-cancer 
continuum. We further support these concepts through integrative analyses of 
multiple transcriptomic datasets comparing normal colonic mucosa with colorectal 
tumors, and we discuss emerging pharmacological strategies targeting Mcl1 in 
colitis-associated cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/biom16050694
PMCID: PMC13204589
PMID: 42194042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


35. Biomolecules. 2026 Apr 27;16(5):647. doi: 10.3390/biom16050647.

The Role of FOSL1 in Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) Pathogenesis and 
IBD-Associated Tumorigenesis.

Rilee GJ(1), Radhakrishnan SK(2)(3), Yang GY(2)(3), Li J(1)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, School of Pharmacy, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, VA 23298-0540, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 
23298-0540, USA.
(3)Massey Comprehensive Cancer Center, Virginia Commonwealth University, 
Richmond, VA 23298-0540, USA.
(4)Center for Drug Discovery, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 
23298-0540, USA.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including ulcerative colitis and Crohn's 
disease, are chronic inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract 
associated with epithelial barrier dysfunction, dysregulated immune responses, 
and an increased risk of cancer. Persistent inflammation is a key driver of 
IBD-associated tumorigenesis, yet the transcriptional regulators linking 
inflammatory signaling to epithelial transformation remain incompletely defined. 
FOSL1 (FOS-like antigen 1), a member of the activator protein-1 (AP-1) 
transcription factor family, has emerged as a critical mediator at the 
intersection of inflammation, epithelial homeostasis, and cancer progression. 
FOSL1 is induced by pro-inflammatory pathways commonly activated in IBD, 
including MAPK/ERK, NF-κB, and cytokine signaling, and regulates gene programs 
involved in cell proliferation, migration, barrier integrity, immune modulation, 
and survival. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that FOSL1 expression is 
elevated in inflamed intestinal mucosa and in IBD-associated malignancies, where 
it contributes to epithelial dysfunction, chronic inflammation, tumor 
initiation, metastasis, angiogenesis, and therapeutic resistance. Moreover, 
FOSL1-driven transcriptional networks show mechanistic overlap between 
IBD-associated colorectal cancer (CRC) and other inflammation-linked 
gastrointestinal cancers, such as pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). In 
this review, we summarize current knowledge on the regulation and function of 
FOSL1 in intestinal inflammation and IBD-associated cancers, highlight its 
context-dependent roles in epithelial and immune compartments, and discuss 
emerging therapeutic strategies aimed at indirectly targeting FOSL1 signaling 
pathways.

DOI: 10.3390/biom16050647
PMCID: PMC13204451
PMID: 42193998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


36. Cancers (Basel). 2026 May 8;18(10):1519. doi: 10.3390/cancers18101519.

TOP2 and NOS2 Orchestrate the Generation of DNA Breaks to Promote Colitis Cancer 
Initiation.

Chang TK(1), Li SL(1), Brunac AC(2), Huang JJ(1), Yeh YH(1), Brousset P(3), Egly 
JM(4)(5), Li TK(1)(5)(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department and Graduate Institute of Microbiology, College of Medicine, 
National Taiwan University, No. 1 Jen-Ai Road Section 1, Taipei 10051, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Pathology and Cytology, Institut Universitaire du Cancer de 
Toulouse-Oncopole, 1 Avenue Irène Joliot-Curie, 31059 Toulouse, France.
(3)Laboratoire d'Anatomie Cytologie Pathologiques, IUCT-Oncopole, 1 Avenue Irène 
Joliot-Curie, 31059 Toulouse, France.
(4)Department of Functional Genomics and Cancer, Institut de Génétique et de 
Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), CNRS/INSERM/University of 
Strasbourg, BP 163, Illkirch Cédex, 67404 Strasbourg, France.
(5)Centers for Genomics and Precision Medicine, National Taiwan University, 
Taipei 10055, Taiwan.
(6)Advanced Biomedical Research Center, Taiwan Centers of Excellence, National 
Taiwan University, Taipei 10672, Taiwan.
(7)Development Center for Biotechnology, Taipei 11571, Taiwan.
(8)Department and Graduate Institute of Biochemistry, National Defense Medical 
Center, Taipei 11490, Taiwan.

Background: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis (UC) 
and Crohn's disease (CD), increase colorectal cancer (CRC) risk. Methods: Mouse 
IBD and CRC models with a combination of pharmacological, knockout and knock-in 
approaches was employed to analyze the involvement of TOP2s and NOS2 in CRC 
tumorigenesis. Key pathologies, such as inflammatory and neoplastic scores, were 
examined by immunohistochemical assays. Results: In colon tissues from acute, 
chronic colitis and CRC mouse models and from CD patients, the biomarkers γH2AX 
and 53BP1pS25/S29 of DNA breaks (mainly representing DSBs) accumulated, 
alongside increases in topoisomerase II (TOP2) and nitric oxide synthase 2 
(NOS2). Genetic ablation of NOS2 (Nos2-/-) or TOP2β (Top2βf/f) as well as 
pharmacological inhibition with ICRF-193 (a TOP2 inhibitor) or PTIO (a NO 
scavenger) reduced DSB formation and disease severity. Consistently, Nos2-/-, or 
ICRF-treated, mice exhibited decreased tumor burden. DSBs and tumor accumulation 
were pronounced in the distal colon, mirroring human CRC distribution. While 
ICRF-193 suppressed tumor growth, Top2βf/f deficiency (with a compensatory TOP2α 
upregulation) enhanced tumor development, indicating potential roles for TOP2 
isozymes in tumor formation and progression. Conclusion: Collectively, these 
findings identify the cooperative action of TOP2 and NOS2 in driving DSBs, 
highlighting a potential therapeutic target in inflammation-associated CRC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers18101519
PMCID: PMC13205054
PMID: 42192880

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


37. Autoimmun Rev. 2026 Jul;25(7):104098. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2026.104098. Epub
 2026 May 25.

Pathological reprogramming of innate immune cells drives resistance to biologics 
in inflammatory bowel diseases.

Diao J(1), Cao H(2), Zhou J(3), Shen J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Yueyang Hospital of Integrative Traditional Chinese 
and Western Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Spleen and Stomach Diseases, Shanghai Municipal Hospital of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, China.
(3)Department of General Practice, Zhuanqiao Community Health Service Center, 
Minhang District, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Yueyang Hospital of Integrative Traditional Chinese 
and Western Medicine, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: shenj_78@126.com.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), encompassing Crohn's disease (CD) and 
ulcerative colitis (UC), is a chronic immune-mediated disorder characterized by 
persist ent intestinal inflammation. With a rising global incidence, IBD poses a 
significant therapeutic challenge. Although biologic agents targeting TNF, α4β7 
integrin, or IL-12/ 23 p40 have improved clinical outcomes, over 40% of patients 
experience primary non-response or secondary loss of response within the first 
year, often accompanied by adverse events. This review systematically 
investigates the dynamic reprogramming of intestinal innate immune cells 
(particularly macrophages, dendritic cells, and neutr ophils,as well as emerging 
populations such as eosinophils and ILCs) during biologic therapy and their 
association with treatment resistance. Under physiological conditions, 
intestinal innate immune cells maintain barrier integrity, regulate immune 
tolerance, and facilitate tissue repair. In IBD, however, these cells undergo 
pathological activation characterized by pro-inflammatory polarization, 
dysregulated cytokine production, and disrupted interactions with the gut 
microbiota, thereby sustaining chronic intestinal inflammation. The efficacy of 
biologic agents in IBD largely relies on their capacity to restrain excessive 
innate immune activation and rebalance mucosal immune responses. Nevertheless, 
adaptive reprogramming of these innate immune cells can drive therapeutic 
resistance through a convergence of mechanisms: sustained activation of 
inflammatory signaling, metabolic reprogramming that reinforces pro-inflammatory 
states, induction of pathogenic T cell responses, and self-perpetuating loops 
that sustain tissue injury. Overall, our findings highlight reprogramming of 
intestinal innate immune cells as a central mechanism mediating both response 
and resistance to biologics, offering a mechanistic rationale for future 
strategies targeting immune cell-microenvironment interactions to overcome 
therapeutic resistance in IBD.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2026.104098
PMID: 42190856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest We confirm 
that this manuscript has not been published by other journals. All authors have 
approved the manuscript and agree with its submission to this journal. The 
authors declare no competing financial interest.


38. Sci Rep. 2026 May 25. doi: 10.1038/s41598-026-54788-3. Online ahead of print.

Reference-guided genome assembly of long non-coding rna transcripts reveals 
target genes associated with Crohn's disease.

Kennedy Ng MM(1)(2), Silverstein S(3), Nishiyama NC(1)(2), Beasley C(3), Lian 
G(3), Huan B(3), Lau G(3), Weaver D(3), Awad A(3), Schaner MR(3), Sheikh 
SZ(4)(5), Furey TS(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Curriculum in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Department of 
Genetics, School of Medicine, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
111 Mason Farm Road, Chapel Hill, NC, USA, 27599.
(2)Department of Biology, College of Arts and Sciences, The University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, 120 Mason Farm Road, Chapel Hill, NC, USA, 27599.
(3)Center for Gastrointestinal Biology and Disease, Division of Gastroenterology 
and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, The University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 130 Mason Farm Road, Chapel Hill, NC, USA, 27599.
(4)Curriculum in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Department of 
Genetics, School of Medicine, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
111 Mason Farm Road, Chapel Hill, NC, USA, 27599. shehzad_sheikh@med.unc.edu.
(5)Center for Gastrointestinal Biology and Disease, Division of Gastroenterology 
and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, The University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 130 Mason Farm Road, Chapel Hill, NC, USA, 27599. 
shehzad_sheikh@med.unc.edu.
(6)Curriculum in Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Department of 
Genetics, School of Medicine, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
111 Mason Farm Road, Chapel Hill, NC, USA, 27599. tsfurey@email.unc.edu.
(7)Department of Biology, College of Arts and Sciences, The University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, 120 Mason Farm Road, Chapel Hill, NC, USA, 27599. 
tsfurey@email.unc.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2025 Oct 01:2025.09.30.674088. doi: 10.1101/2025.09.30.674088.

Crohn's disease (CD) is highly heterogeneous in presentation and progression 
with no cure. Molecular phenotyping has been used to elucidate cellular and 
tissue-based alterations to characterize drivers and effects of disease. One 
currently understudied class of functional molecules is long non-coding RNAs 
(lncRNAs). Studying the full lncRNA landscape in CD is challenging due in part 
to an incomplete lncRNA annotation and a lack of their functional 
characterization in tissues of interest. We used a genome-guided alignment 
strategy to assemble predicted lncRNA transcripts using short RNA-sequencing 
data from colon tissue of adult patient samples. When combining our predicted 
lncRNAs with previous lncRNA annotations, we determined 98 that were 
differentially expressed, recapitulating many from previous IBD studies while 
also uncovering new ones. We built gene co-expression networks to cluster 
lncRNAs with functionally characterized protein-coding genes. Clusters 
containing differential lncRNAs were correlated to disease status and associated 
with pathways related to the humoral immune response, metabolism, and tissue 
regeneration. We uncovered multiple differential lncRNAs whose expression 
significantly correlated with nearby differential protein-coding genes that have 
also been differentially expressed in other IBD datasets, such as PITX2. We 
focused on a predicted lncRNA that is antisense to the PITX2-adjacent lncRNA 
PANCR, which we called PANCR-AS1, and provide multiple lines of evidence that 
support PANCR-AS1 functioning as an enhancer of PITX2 expression. Overall, we 
determined lncRNAs that are potential contributors to CD pathogenesis. We 
developed a robust pipeline for identifying lncRNAs in diseased and non-diseased 
tissue that are absent from reference annotations. We also outlined a framework 
to pinpoint significant disease-associated lncRNAs with potential functional 
activity related to their nearby protein-coding genes.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-026-54788-3
PMID: 42185506

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.


39. Drug Metab Dispos. 2026 Apr 13;54(6):100297. doi: 10.1016/j.dmd.2026.100297. 
Online ahead of print.

Metabolomics-based predictive biomarker discovery for thiopurine response in 
Crohn disease: Plasma histidine as a promising biomarker.

Chan SY(1), Chao K(2), Yang T(3), Cao AL(1), Guan YP(1), Li P(4), Guan SX(1), Yu 
AM(5), Zuo Z(6), Wang XD(7), Gao X(8), Huang M(9).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun 
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun 
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China; Department of Pharmacy, Shenzhen People's 
Hospital (The First Affiliated Hospital, Southern University of Science and 
Technology), Shenzhen, China.
(4)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun 
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China; School of Medicine, Jianghan University, 
Wuhan, China.
(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Medicine, School of Medicine, 
University of California Davis, Sacramento, California.
(6)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China.
(7)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun 
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
wangxd@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: gxiang@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(9)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sun 
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
huangmin@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

Thiopurine drugs are cornerstone immunosuppressive agents for treating Crohn 
disease (CD), yet their clinical utility is limited by significant 
interindividual variability in efficacy and a lack of reliable predictive 
biomarkers. This study aimed to identify and validate plasma metabolites that 
can predict therapeutic response to thiopurine drugs in patients with CD. A 
total of 270 patients with CD receiving azathioprine or mercaptopurine 
monotherapy were retrospectively enrolled. Untargeted metabolomics was performed 
to discover candidate predictive metabolites associated with treatment outcomes, 
followed by targeted quantification of histidine levels using liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry. Treatment efficacy was evaluated by 
biochemical remission, clinical remission, and mucosal healing. In vitro 
experiments using lipopolysaccharide-stimulated a human monocytic leukemia cell 
line macrophages were conducted to assess the anti-inflammatory role of 
histidine. Untargeted metabolomics identified l-histidine as a metabolite 
positively correlated with therapeutic response across biochemical remission, 
clinical remission, and mucosal healing. Targeted analysis confirmed 
significantly higher histidine levels in responders versus nonresponders (P < 
.0001). Histidine levels were negatively correlated with disease activity 
indices (Crohn's Disease Activity Index, C-reactive protein, and Simple 
Endoscopic Score for Crohn's Disease) and tumor necrosis factor-α levels. 
Receiver operating characteristic analysis identified 9.39 μg/mL histidine as 
the cutoff predicting mucosal healing (area under the curve = 0.690). 
Kaplan-Meier analysis showed improved remission maintenance in patients with 
higher histidine levels. In vitro, histidine suppressed tumor necrosis factor-α 
production in a human monocytic leukemia cell line cells and enhanced 
azathioprine's anti-inflammatory effects. Plasma histidine is a promising 
biomarker for predicting thiopurine efficacy in CD and may support early 
therapeutic stratification. These findings warrant prospective studies to verify 
the potential benefit of histidine supplementation in enhancing therapeutic 
outcomes. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study identifies plasma histidine as a 
pharmacometabolic biomarker of thiopurine response in Crohn disease. By linking 
baseline amino acid metabolism to variability in therapeutic efficacy, these 
findings highlight metabolic status as a determinant of drug response and 
support metabolomics in precision pharmacotherapy.

Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental 
Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dmd.2026.100297
PMID: 42184700

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


40. J Mol Med (Berl). 2026 May 23;104(1):78. doi: 10.1007/s00109-026-02685-7.

Role of PANoptosis in intestinal diseases and its therapeutic implications.

Yu C(1), Huang Y(2), Han B(1), Duan F(3), Liu B(4)(5), Zeng C(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Drug Research and Development, Guangdong Pharmaceutical 
University, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, 510006, 
China.
(3)Department of Hematology, The Seventh Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Shenzhen, 518106, China. duanfq@mail3.sysu.edu.cn.
(4)Key Specialty of Clinical Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, 510699, China. 
liubing520@gdpu.edu.cn.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, 510006, 
China. liubing520@gdpu.edu.cn.
(6)Center for Drug Research and Development, Guangdong Pharmaceutical 
University, Guangzhou, 510006, China. zengcheng@gdpu.edu.cn.
(7)Key Specialty of Clinical Pharmacy, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, 510699, China. 
zengcheng@gdpu.edu.cn.

PANoptosis is a novel programmed inflammatory cell death pathway. It integrates 
pyroptosis, apoptosis, and necroptosis components via a unified molecular 
platform termed PANoptosome. Unlike single classical cell death pathway, 
PANoptosis is tightly regulated by key regulators such as ZBP1, RIPK3, 
caspase-8, and ASC, resulting in a highly inflammatory and immunogenic form of 
cell death. While its pathological relevance has been widely investigated in 
cancer, microbial infections, and systemic inflammatory syndromes, its role in 
intestinal diseases has not been comprehensively explored. In this review, we 
summarize emerging evidence highlighting its key role in intestinal diseases, 
including Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, colorectal cancer, intestinal 
ischemia/reperfusion injury, necrotizing enterocolitis, celiac disease, and 
immune checkpoint inhibitors-induced colitis. We further summarize recent 
advances in PANoptosis mechanisms and immunological regulation in intestinal 
diseases, highlight its intricate interplay with gut microbiota, and discuss the 
therapeutic potential of targeting PANoptosis to restore intestinal homeostasis 
and mitigate disease progression.

© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-026-02685-7
PMID: 42174223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Clinical trial number: Not applicable.


41. Drugs R D. 2026 May 22. doi: 10.1007/s40268-026-00545-w. Online ahead of
print.

Ustekinumab in the Management of Perianal Fistulizing Crohn's Disease: Current 
Evidence and Practical Strategies.

Yang B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery/IBD Center, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
University of Chinese Medicine, 155 Hanzhong Road, Qinhuai District, Nanjing, 
China. yfy0051@njucm.edu.cn.

Perianal fistulizing Crohn's disease (PFCD) is a severe and complex 
manifestation associated with high morbidity and limited treatment durability. 
Ustekinumab is a monoclonal antibody targeting the interleukin-12/23 pathway, 
which is involved in the pathogenesis of PFCD. Evidence from post hoc analyses 
and real-world studies has shown the therapeutic potential of ustekinumab in 
both anti-tumor necrosis factor-experienced and selected biologic-naïve patients 
with PFCD. Preliminary evidence has indicated that the treatment effect may be 
improved when used in combination with surgical interventions such as seton 
placement or sphincter-preserving procedures. Adjunctive antibiotics during 
induction and early monitoring of clinical and radiologic response may further 
enhance outcomes. While ustekinumab is increasingly being incorporated into 
multidisciplinary PFCD management, prospective fistula-specific trials are 
needed to clarify its optimal positioning. Future research should also focus on 
predictive biomarkers and treatment algorithms to support personalized and 
durable care.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s40268-026-00545-w
PMID: 42171988

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflicts of Interest: Bolin Yang 
has no conflicts to disclose. Ethics Approval: Not applicable. Consent to 
Participate: Note applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable.


42. Clin Epigenetics. 2026 May 21. doi: 10.1186/s13148-026-02165-2. Online ahead
of  print.

Histone H3K27 demethylation drives Crohn's disease inflammation: GSK-J4 as a 
potential epigenetic therapy.

Patel JA(1), Beatson K(1), Abu-Hanna J(1), Gurung R(1), Harrow P(2), Wood C(3), 
Loizidou M(1), Clapp LH(4), Richard Cohen C(3)(5)(6), Eddama MMR(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, Research Department of 
Surgical Biotechnology, University College London, GI Services, Ground Floor, 
250 Euston Road, NW1 2PG, London, UK.
(2)Gastrointestinal Services, University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, UK.
(3)Department of Colorectal Surgery, University College London Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(4)Cardiovascular Sciences, University College London, London, UK.
(5)Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, Research Department of 
Targeted Intervention, University College London, London, UK.
(6)Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland Clinic London, London, UK.
(7)Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, Research Department of 
Surgical Biotechnology, University College London, GI Services, Ground Floor, 
250 Euston Road, NW1 2PG, London, UK. m.eddama.12@ucl.ac.uk.
(8)Department of Colorectal Surgery, University College London Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK. m.eddama.12@ucl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease (CD) is characterised by recurrent gastrointestinal 
inflammation. Epigenetic modifications, particularly the methylation of histone 
H3 at lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3), are crucial in regulating gene 
expression and macrophage activity. Dysregulation of these modifications may 
contribute to CD pathogenesis.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of H3K27me3 in CD, assess the involvement of 
the WNK1-TAK1 signalling pathway, and evaluate the therapeutic potential of 
GSK-J4, a selective histone demethylase inhibitor.
METHODS: Peripheral blood and intestinal tissue were collected from CD patients 
(n = 19) undergoing surgical resection and from age-matched healthy controls 
(HC, n = 17). Monocytes were isolated and differentiated into macrophages. 
Expression of H3K27me3, demethylases KDM6A and KDM6B, and components of the 
WNK1-TAK1 pathway were assessed by Immunofluorescence, Western blotting, and 
qRT-PCR. GSK-J4 was used to assess its effect on these markers and cytokine 
secretion.
RESULTS: Inflamed CD tissue and derived macrophages showed increased KDM6A/B 
expression and reduced H3K27me3 compared with unaffected tissue and HC-derived 
macrophages. GSK-J4 treatment reversed this epigenetic profile and significantly 
reduced secretion of inflammatory cytokines IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α. Activation 
of the WNK1-TAK1 axis was identified as a key mediator of 
lipopolysaccharide-induced cytokine release and was modulated by GSK-J4.
CONCLUSION: This study identifies KDM6A/B-driven epigenetic dysregulation as a 
novel pathogenetic mechanism in CD. GSK-J4 effectively restores H3K27me3 levels 
and reduces inflammation, supporting histone demethylase inhibition as a 
promising and mechanistically novel therapeutic approach warranting further 
translational investigation.

© 2026. Crown.

DOI: 10.1186/s13148-026-02165-2
PMID: 42169165

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethica approval and consent to 
participate: This study was conducted in accordance with the ethical standards 
of the Declaration of Helsinki. Ethical approval was obtained from the Health 
Research Authority and Health and Care Research Wales (Research Ethics Committee 
[REC] reference: 21/NW/0023) and the University College London–Royal Free 
Hospital (UCL-RFH) Research Ethics Committee. All participants provided written 
informed consent to participate in this study in accordance with the Declaration 
of Helsinki and institutional ethical guidelines. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no personal financial interests or relationships that could be 
perceived to influence the work reported in this manuscript. The corresponding 
author (M.M.R.E.) has previously participated in fundraising activities for 
Crohn’s and Colitis in Childhood, the charity that provided funding support for 
this project. The late Michael Seres, who served as the Patient and Public 
Involvement (PPI) lead, also contributed to fundraising activities. The authors 
do not believe these activities have influenced the design, conduct, or 
reporting of the study.


43. Recent Adv Inflamm Allergy Drug Discov. 2026 May 14. doi: 
10.2174/0127722708447191260218095121. Online ahead of print.

From Bench to Bowel: A Review of Nanocarrier-based Drug Delivery Strategies in 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Sonant JK(1), Omre S(1), Panday A(1), Jain AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Guru Ghasidas Vishwavidyalaya, Koni, Bilaspur, 
Chhattisgarh, India.

This review aims to discuss various nanocarrier systems for treatment in 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), encompassing 
ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), is a chronic, idiopathic, and 
relapsing-remitting condition of the gastrointestinal tract characterized by 
immunological dysregulation, malfunction of the intestinal epithelial barrier, 
and excessive production of pro-inflammatory mediators. Therefore, this review 
emphasises the role of nanocarrier systems in improving drug targeting, 
enhancing the stability of therapeutic agents, with minimal side effects, and 
their effectiveness in the treatment of IBD. Relevant literature was 
systematically searched and retrieved from reputable scientific databases, 
including Google Scholar, ScienceDirect, PubMed, and SpringerLink. The selection 
focused on peer-reviewed articles, reviews, and experimental studies aligned 
with the scope of targeted drug delivery systems in IBD. In this review, we have 
discussed the advantages and limitations of the nanocarrier for the treatment of 
IBD. Treatment of IBD using nanocarriers becomes necessary because conventional 
therapy provides symptomatic relief but poor drug site targeting, poor 
bioavailability, and systemic toxicity. An advanced drug delivery carrier system 
is overcome through a nanocarrier system by site-specific targeting and 
controlled release to inflamed tissues. Drug delivery systems based on 
nanocarriers have a lot of promise to improve treatment efficacy, have high 
bioavailability, have few side effects, and target IBD specifically. Every 
nanocarrier method, including polymeric-based nanoparticles, liposomes, 
exosomes, SLN (solid lipid nanoparticles), NLC (nanostructured lipid carrier), 
and gold nanoparticles, has shown unique pharmacokinetic advantages and 
surmounted obstacles in traditional delivery systems.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/0127722708447191260218095121
PMID: 42163756


44. Drug Dev Res. 2026 Jun;87(4):e70321. doi: 10.1002/ddr.70321.

Mesalamine in Treatment of Intestinal Inflammatory Diseases-Formulation-Driven 
Strategies for Targeted Colonic Therapy and Remission Maintenance.

Sahoo B(1)(2), Patel J(1).

Author information:
(1)Datta Meghe College of Pharmacy, Datta Meghe Institute of Higher Education 
and Research (Deemed to be University), Sawangi (Meghe), Wardha, Maharashtra, 
India.
(2)Alembic Pharmaceuticals Limited, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.

Mesalamine (5‑aminosalicylic acid, mesalazine, or 5‑ASA) remains a cornerstone 
therapy for mild‑to‑moderate ulcerative colitis because of its local 
anti‑inflammatory and antioxidant actions on the intestinal mucosa, and its 
clinical performance has increasingly been refined through advances in synthetic 
medicinal chemistry and drug‑delivery science. Beyond conventional formulations, 
medicinal chemistry efforts have explored mesalamine analogues and hybrid 
molecules, including prodrug approaches and conjugates with anti‑inflammatory or 
redox‑modulating moieties, to extend target engagement beyond classical 
cyclooxygenase inhibition toward pathways such as oxidative stress regulation 
and inflammasome signaling, thereby offering the potential for synergistic, 
multi‑pathway control of mucosal inflammation. In parallel, nanoparticle‑based 
delivery systems-such as pH‑responsive polymeric nanoparticles, mucoadhesive 
nanocarriers, and multi‑matrix or hydrogel‑based platforms-have been developed 
to protect mesalamine from premature upper gastrointestinal absorption, exploit 
disease‑associated pH and permeability changes, and prolong residence time at 
inflamed colonic sites, resulting in higher local drug concentrations with 
reduced systemic exposure. These strategies complement established oral and 
topical formulations and combination regimens, with preclinical and early 
translational data suggesting improvements in mucosal healing, attenuation of 
oxidative injury, and enhanced adherence through simplified dosing. When viewed 
together with emerging combination strategies that pair mesalamine with agents 
such as budesonide, sucralfate, or antioxidant and immunomodulatory compounds, 
these advances underscore a broader shift toward precision‑designed mesalamine 
therapies, integrating molecular optimization and targeted delivery to improve 
clinical outcomes in ulcerative colitis and to support exploratory roles in 
related inflammatory enteropathies.

© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ddr.70321
PMID: 42163435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. BMC Gastroenterol. 2026 May 20. doi: 10.1186/s12876-026-04815-4. Online ahead
of  print.

Vedolizumab for stricturing Crohn's disease of the terminal ileum - an 
international multicenter cohort study.

El Ouali S(1)(2), Baker ME(3), Lu C(4), Medellin A(5), Bruining DH(6), Fletcher 
JG(7), Inoue A(8), Regueiro M(9), Ottichilo RK(10), Schoenoff S(6), Rosentreter 
R(4), Bena J(11), Qazi T(9), Holubar SD(12), Gauriloff S(9)(13), Gandhi NS(3), 
Falloon K(9), Sleiman J(9), Cohen BL(9), Goren I(10), Balci N(14), Rieder 
F(9)(10)(13); Stenosis Therapy and Anti-Fibrotic Research (STAR) Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, UAE. 
sara.elouali@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Digestive Diseases 
Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, USA. sara.elouali@gmail.com.
(3)Imaging Department, Diagnostics Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(5)Department of Radiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(6)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(7)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(8)Department of Radiology, Shiga University of Medical Science, Shiga, Japan.
(9)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Digestive Diseases 
Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, USA.
(10)Department of Inflammation and Immunity, Lerner Research Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(11)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Lerner Research Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(12)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Digestive Diseases and Surgery Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(13)Cleveland Clinic Program for Global Translational Inflammatory Bowel 
Diseases, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(14)Imaging Institute, Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, UAE.

OBJECTIVE: Crohn's disease (CD) frequently progresses to stricturing 
complications. Anti-stricture therapies are lacking, and anti-inflammatory 
therapies are hence the mainstay of medical treatment. However, data on the 
efficacy of vedolizumab in stricturing CD are not available. We therefore aimed 
to assess outcomes of vedolizumab in this setting.
DESIGN/METHOD: We evaluated adult patients who received vedolizumab within 
6 months of imaging-confirmed symptomatic ileal stricturing CD (CONSTRICT 
criteria) in a multicenter observational cohort study. Images were centrally 
read by an expert radiologist with experience in IBD imaging. Outcomes were 
rates of intervention (composite endpoint for endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD) 
or surgery during follow-up), EBD, surgery, obstructive symptoms, and 
vedolizumab persistence.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients were included (61% female, median age 52 years); 
64% had an anastomotic stricture; 84% had received prior biologics. Median 
follow-up was 17 months. Cumulative intervention rates were 23%, 44% and 50% of 
patients at 12, 24 and 48 months, respectively. 52% of patients reported symptom 
resolution, of whom 26% subsequently developed symptoms during follow-up. 
Vedolizumab persistence was 82%, 74% and 59% at 12, 24 and 48 months. 
Anastomotic stricture was inversely associated with intervention (HR0.21, 
P = 0.012) and surgery (HR0.11, P = 0.013). Higher obstructive symptom index 
(HR4.47, P = 0.040) and degree of prestenotic bowel dilatation (HR1.09, 
P = 0.030) were associated with recurrent obstructive symptoms. Elevated 
baseline CRP was associated with vedolizumab discontinuation (HR1.96, 
P = 0.014).
CONCLUSION: Vedolizumab appears to be a treatment option in CD patients with 
terminal ileal strictures, especially in patients with anastomotic strictures, 
without obstructive symptoms or prestenotic bowel dilatation. Validation in 
prospective controlled studies is needed.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12876-026-04815-4
PMID: 42157112

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of 
Helsinki. The Institutional Review Board at Cleveland Clinic (20–257), Mayo 
Clinic (20–008419), Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi (A-2021–008) and University of 
Calgary (19–2155) approved the study. The need for informed consent was waived 
as there was no direct contact with patients for the purpose of the study. 
Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing interests: Conflicts of 
interests and potential competing interests: SE has received speaker fees from 
Janssen, Abbvie, Takeda, Eli Lilly and has been on the advisory board for Eli 
Lilly and Janssen MB has disclosed grants to institution from Helmsley 
Foundation and Pfizer CL has received speaker fees from Abbvie and Janssen. CL 
has received advisory board fees from AbbVie, Celltrion, Janssen, Lilly, Pfizer, 
Takeda, Pendopharm, and Ferring. AM has received royalties from Elsevier (author 
contributor). DHB has been on an advisory board for Janssen and Johnson & 
Johnson. JGF has disclosed grants to institution: The Leona M. and Harry B. 
Helmsley Charitable Trust, Siemens Healthineers, Alimentiv, Pfizer; 
Co-investigator: Motilent; Consulting with funds to institution: Janssen, 
Alimentiv, Genentech, Boehringer Ingelhem, GSK, Re X Pharma Takeda AI: has no 
conflict of interest. MR receives the following financial support: Advisory 
Boards and Consultant (both) for Abbvie, Janssen, UCB, Takeda, Pfizer, BMS, 
Organon,Amgen, Genentech, Gilead, Salix, Prometheus, Lilly, Celgene, Boehringer 
Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals Inc. (BIPI), Celltrion, Roche RKO has no conflict of 
interest. SS has been on an advisory board for Abbvie. RR has no conflict of 
interest. JB has no conflict of interest. TQ has received the following 
financial support: Advisory Board and Speakers fee for AbbVie, Celgene-Bristol 
Meyers Squibb, Janssen, Prometheus Biosciences. Educational Grants: AbbVie, 
Pfizer, Eli Lilly and Janssen SDH has received speaker fees from Takeda, and 
research funding from the Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation, and the American Society 
of Colon & Rectal Surgeons. SG has no conflict of interest. NSG has no conflict 
of interest. KF receives grant funding from the Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation 
(916943) and Pfizer (90146787). She served on an advisory panel for Janssen and 
is providing content for Takeda IBDIQ. JS has no conflict of interest. BLC 
receives the following financial support: Advisory Boards and Consultant for 
Abbvie, Celgene-Bristol Myers Squibb, Johnson & Johnson Innovative Medicine, 
Lilly, Pfizer, Sublimity Therapeutics, Takeda, TARGET RWE; DSMB: Emmes Biopharma 
Services LLC; Speaking: Abbvie and Takeda IG has no conflict of interest. NB has 
no conflict of interest. FR is on the advisory board or a consultant for Adiso, 
Adnovate, Agomab, Allergan, AbbVie, Arena, Astra Zeneca, Bausch & Lomb, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim, Celgene/BMS, Celltrion, CDISC, Celsius, Cowen, Eugit, 
Ferring, Galapagos, Galmed, Genentech, Gilead, Gossamer, Granite, Guidepoint, 
Helmsley, Horizon Therapeutics, Image Analysis Limited, Index Pharma, Landos, 
Jannsen, Koutif, Mestag, Metacrine, Mirum, Mopac, Morphic, Myka Labs, Organovo, 
Origo, Palisade, Pfizer, Pliant, Prometheus Biosciences, Receptos, RedX, Roche, 
Samsung, Sanofi, Surmodics, Surrozen, Takeda, Techlab, Teva, Theravance, Thetis, 
Trix Bio, UCB, Ysios, 89Bio.


46. Sci Rep. 2026 May 19. doi: 10.1038/s41598-026-53070-w. Online ahead of print.

Tissue transcriptional programs stratify Crohn's disease by therapeutic response 
and clinical outcomes.

Awad A(#)(1), Huan B(#)(1), Shanahan MT(2), Weaver D(1), Silverstein S(1), Lau 
G(1), Lian G(1), Furey B(1), McMichael BD(3)(4), Arias A(1), Keith BP(1)(3)(4), 
Shumway AJ(2), Sethupathy P(5), Furey TS(6)(7)(8), Sheikh SZ(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Center for Gastrointestinal Biology and Disease, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical and Translational Sciences, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA.
(4)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA.
(5)Department of Biomedical and Translational Sciences, College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA. pr46@cornell.edu.
(6)Center for Gastrointestinal Biology and Disease, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. tsfurey@email.unc.edu.
(7)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA. tsfurey@email.unc.edu.
(8)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA. tsfurey@email.unc.edu.
(9)Center for Gastrointestinal Biology and Disease, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. shehzad_sheikh@med.unc.edu.
(10)Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA. shehzad_sheikh@med.unc.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Crohn's disease is biologically heterogeneous, and current clinical 
classifications poorly predict treatment response or disease progression. The 
molecular programs that drive clinical outcomes in Crohn's disease remain poorly 
defined. We generated and analyzed whole-transcriptome RNA-sequencing data from 
non-inflamed colonic biopsies of 101 well-characterized Crohn's disease 
patients. We performed weighted gene co-expression network analysis and 
identified 15 transcriptional programs that stratified Crohn's disease 
independent of conventional clinical classification. We then tested associations 
between these programs and clinical outcomes, including primary and secondary 
treatment failure, surgical burden, and perianal disease. A neutrophil 
activation program enriched for CD69 expression was strongly associated with 
both primary and secondary treatment failure, identifying a mucosal immune 
phenotype of therapeutic resistance. A fibro-proliferative program centered on 
SERPINE1 expression correlated with higher cumulative surgical burden, 
implicating tissue remodeling pathways in progressive disease. We also 
discovered an antimicrobial program, marked by elevated DEFA5 and DEFA6, in 
colonic mucosa; this signature was enriched in patients with treatment failure 
and validated by DEFA5 immunofluorescence. A distinct program uniquely 
associated with perianal disease highlights the molecular features of this 
severe phenotype that are not captured by standard clinical metrics. In 
conclusion, colonic transcriptional programs identify biologically meaningful 
disease states in Crohn's disease that associate with treatment failure, 
surgical risk, and perianal involvement. These findings provide a molecular 
basis for prognostic biomarkers and targeted therapeutic stratification in 
Crohn's disease.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-026-53070-w
PMID: 42156958

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.


47. Intest Res. 2026 May 19. doi: 10.5217/ir.2025.00325. Online ahead of print.

Real-world use and perceptions of advanced combined therapies in treating 
inflammatory bowel disease.

Wu HY(1)(2), Chen ZC(1)(2), Weng MT(2)(3), Ho AHY(4), Mak JWY(4), Leong RW(5), 
Ng SC(6)(7)(8), Mahadevan U(9), Magro F(10), Wu DC(11), Wei SC(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital Jinshan 
Branch, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, 
National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Medical Research, National Taiwan University Hospital Hsin-Chu 
Branch, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Concord Repatriation General Hospital, 
Sydney, Australia.
(6)Microbiota I-Center (MagIC), Hong Kong, China.
(7)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, State Key Laboratory of Digestive 
Diseases, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(8)New Cornerstone Science Laboratory, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.
(9)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, 
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(10)Unit of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Department of Biomedicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(11)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical 
University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(12)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. 
shuchenwei@ntu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Combining therapies targeting distinct pathways shows promise 
in breaking the therapeutic ceiling for inflammatory bowel disease. The study 
explored real-world experiences and gaps between current evidence and clinical 
practice regarding advanced combined therapies.
METHODS: A cross-sectional online survey was conducted via QR code during 
meetings or email invitation. The survey covered participant demographics, 
experiences with advanced combined therapies for ulcerative colitis, Crohn's 
disease, and knowledge of these therapies.
RESULTS: Between March and October of 2024, 234 participants from 20 countries 
replied and 51.7% had adopted advanced combined therapies (86.0% had treated 
ulcerative colitis, 66.9% Crohn's disease, and 52.9% both). Among the 48.3% who 
had no experience, 76.1% would try if indicated. Refractory diseases were the 
most common indications. For combined therapies duration, 52.8% were 
time-oriented, favoring limited use within 6 months. Physicians reported no 
adverse events in 59.5% of cases. Of the events, infections (69.8%) were most 
common. Add-on strategy was the most commonly adopted, particularly the Janus 
kinase inhibitor added on anti-integrin for ulcerative colitis and anti-tumor 
necrosis factor alpha added on anti-interleukin 12/23 for Crohn's disease. 
Concomitant strategy followed, while sequential strategy was the least used. 
More non-Asian experts were experienced (82.4%) compared to Asian participants 
(46.5%). Both inexperienced and non-Asian physicians preferred add-on strategy, 
but prioritized goal-oriented use, targeting clinical and endoscopic remission.
CONCLUSIONS: In real-world practice, advanced combined therapies were primarily 
used for refractory inflammatory bowel disease with limited duration. Add-on use 
was the most adopted. Differences in treatment approaches reflect varying levels 
of physician experience and geographical locations.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2025.00325
PMID: 42156083


48. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2026 May 19. doi: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000002387. Online 
ahead of print.

Review of Current Medical and Surgical Therapy for Inflammatory Bowel Disease.

Arora M(1), Khurana S(1), Lu I(1), Dwivedi M(1), Schwartzberg DM(2), Rajapakse 
R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Mather Hospital and Hofstra University Zucker 
School of Medicine, Port Jefferson.
(2)Northwell Health, Center for Advanced Inflammatory Bowel Disease, New Hyde 
Park, NY.

Inflammatory bowel disease, comprised of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative 
colitis (UC), is a chronic, immune-mediated disorder of the gastrointestinal 
tract. The therapeutic landscape for IBD has expanded significantly in the last 
2 decades with the introduction of biological agents and small-molecule 
therapies that target specific inflammatory pathways. This review provides an 
overview of current medical and surgical treatment options for IBD, emphasizing 
mechanisms of action, clinical efficacy, and safety profiles. Biological 
therapies, including TNF-α inhibitors, integrin blockers, and interleukin 
inhibitors, have improved rates of clinical remission and mucosal healing in 
patients with moderate-to-severe disease. Small-molecule agents, such as Janus 
kinase (JAK) inhibitors and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulators, 
offer effective oral alternatives for patients who are refractory to or 
intolerant of biologics. Comparative studies among these therapies continue to 
guide individualized treatment approaches. This review discusses the emerging 
role of head-to-head trials, safety considerations, and evolving treatment 
algorithms that integrate new agents into clinical practice. While IBD remains 
incurable, current therapies offer promising long-term disease control, relief 
of symptoms, and improved quality of life.

Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000002387
PMID: 42155528


49. Am J Gastroenterol. 2026 May 19. doi: 10.14309/ajg.0000000000004056. Online 
ahead of print.

Microbiome-Directed Therapy for Fatigue in Quiescent Inflammatory Bowel Disease: 
A Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial of Multi-Strain Probiotic Supplementation.

Borren NZ(1), Paulides E(1), Klaassen MAY(2)(3), Alm E(3), Xavier 
RJ(4)(5)(6)(7)(8), Janneke van der Woude C(1), Ananthakrishnan AN(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Isala Zwolle, Zwolle, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA, USA; Center for Microbiome Informatics and Therapeutics, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(5)Center for Computational and Integrative Biology, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Center for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Gene Lay Institute of Immunology and Inflammation, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(9)Division of Gastroenterology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Fatigue is a challenging symptom for patients with inflammatory 
bowel diseases (IBD). Emerging evidence links alterations in the gut microbiome 
with fatigue in IBD, highlighting the potential of microbiome-targeted 
treatments. Our aim was to evaluate the clinical efficacy and biological effects 
of a multi-strain probiotic supplementation on fatigue in patients with 
quiescent IBD.
METHODS: This multi-center, placebo-controlled, randomized controlled trial 
included patients with quiescent IBD, defined as being in clinical remission and 
a colonoscopy within 1 year which demonstrated no active disease, and with 
significant fatigue (FACIT-F score < 43). Patients were randomized to receive 
either probiotics (Ecologic® BARRIER, containing 9 different bacterial strains) 
or placebo for 12 weeks. Gut microbiome and serum metabolome were analyzed at 
baseline and at the end of the study.
RESULTS: Our study enrolled 100 patients (52 Crohn's disease (CD), 44 ulcerative 
colitis (UC), 4 IBD-unspecified) with quiescent IBD and with a mean age of 41 
years; 61% were women. After 12 weeks, 29.4% of the probiotic group and 40.0% of 
the placebo group met criteria for no fatigue (p=0.34). However, all 
participants reported an improvement in fatigue (p<0.001) with the most striking 
change noted at 4 weeks in both groups. Probiotic treatment led to beneficial 
shifts in gut microbiome and serum metabolome composition, particularly an 
increase in Bifidobacterium animalis after 12 weeks.
DISCUSSION: While 12 weeks of probiotic administration was not associated with 
relief of fatigue in patients with quiescent IBD, we observed beneficial 
alterations in the gut microbiome and serum metabolome. ClincialTrials.gov 
number, NCT03266484.

Copyright © 2026 by The American College of Gastroenterology.

DOI: 10.14309/ajg.0000000000004056
PMID: 42153706


50. Eur J Immunol. 2026 May;56(5):e70207. doi: 10.1002/eji.70207.

A Novel PTPN2 Isoform Differentially Regulates Immune Response.

Li X(1), Rahimov F(2), Wang R(1), Gao L(1), Ma R(3), Han T(1), Bi Y(4), Cruz 
F(1), Wang J(2), Grosskurth S(1), Asque E(2), Paez-Cortez J(1), Levesque MC(1), 
Crosbie NE(4), Radstake T(1), Biswas A(1), Katlinski K(1).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Discovery Research, AbbVie, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Genomics Research Center, AbbVie, Inc., North Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(3)Small Molecule Therapeutics & Platform Technologies, AbbVie, Inc., North 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(4)AbbVie Bioresearch Center, Worcester, Massachusetts, USA.

Genome-wide association studies implicate the PTPN2 gene locus (18p11.21) in 
risk for several autoimmune diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease. 
Through genetic fine mapping, we identified the single-nucleotide polymorphism 
rs80262450 in the PTPN2 gene as the putative causal variant. Analysis of GTEx 
tissue samples and genetically engineered myeloid cell lines carrying risk and 
nonrisk alleles of rs80262450 demonstrated increased expression of the PTPN2 
splice isoform 4 (PTPN2.4), suggesting that the rs80262450 enhances disease 
susceptibility by favoring production of PTPN2.4. Furthermore, we found that 
PTPN2.4 contains a nuclear export sequence (NES) that leads to its retention in 
the cytoplasm. Differential localization of PTPN2.4 isoform results in a 
distinct protein binding profile revealed by mass-spectrometry analysis, and its 
overexpression increased TNF-α. PTPN2.4 knockdown reduced pro-inflammatory 
cytokines in human macrophages. Mutations within the NES motif abolished the 
unique localization and function of PTPN2.4. Lastly, increased expression of 
PTPN2.4 was found in Crohn's disease tissues, demonstrating its involvement in 
the disease. Together, we identified the pathogenic isoform PTPN2.4 as a novel 
driver of intestinal inflammation and a potential target to attenuate 
inflammation in IBD.

© 2026 AbbVie Inc. European Journal of Immunology published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.70207
PMCID: PMC13185683
PMID: 42153603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All Authors are or were employees of AbbVie at 
the time of the study. The design, study conduct, and financial support for this 
research were provided by AbbVie. AbbVie funded the study and participated in 
the interpretation of data, review, and approval of the publication.


51. Front Immunol. 2026 Apr 30;17:1816653. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1816653. 
eCollection 2026.

All roads lead to NF-κB: the NF-κB pathway as a major target for intestinal 
inflammatory disorders.

Khasanov R(1), Boettcher M(1), Wessel LM(1), Schäfer KH(2), Tapia-Laliena MÁ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Medical Faculty of Mannheim, University of 
Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.
(2)Working Group Enteric Nervous Systems (AGENS), University of Applied Sciences 
Kaiserslautern, Kaiserslautern, Germany.

This review aims to comprehensively examine the role of the NF-κB signalling 
pathway as a central mediator of intestinal inflammation, integrating evidence 
from microbiota dysbiosis, immune activation, neutrophil extracellular trap 
(NET) formation, and the gut-brain axis, and to evaluate current and emerging 
NF-κB-targeted therapeutic strategies for inflammatory intestinal disorders. The 
NF-κB family comprises transcription factors that control key processes in 
immune responses and inflammation by regulating specific gene expression. NF-κB 
signalling mediates intestinal inflammatory responses at different levels 
including cytokine secretion, inflammasome signalling, the recruiting of immune 
cells and antibody production. The NF-κB pathway acts as sensor of microbiota 
changes and is strongly activated by bacterial toxins such as LPS, MDP or TMAO. 
Thus, microbial dysbiosis activates pro-inflammatory NF-κB, producing epithelial 
barrier dysfunction that can lead to a "leaky gut" syndrome, allowing 
pro-inflammatory factors to leak into the systemic circulation. Consequently, 
the inflammation originating in the intestine spreads to other organs like the 
brain, where it might contribute to the development of neurodegenerative 
disorders, such as Parkinson's disease. In addition, NF-κB also promotes 
intestinal inflammation in response to Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs) 
formation, promoting tissue damage and lesions of the intestinal epithelial 
lining. Therefore, a dysregulated NF-κB signalling appears often in multiple 
chronic intestinal inflammatory conditions, such as Crohn's Disease (CD) and 
Ulcerative Colitis (UC), Celiac Disease (CeD) or microscopic colitis. In 
addition, NF-κB is strongly activated in Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) and in 
acute intestinal inflammation such as Necrotizing Enterocolitis (NEC). 
Confirming this evidence, inhibition of the NF-κB pathway by drugs, peptides or 
natural compounds has been demonstrated to ameliorate the symptoms in many of 
these inflammatory diseases. In this review, we explore the role of the NF-κB 
pathway in intestinal inflammation, given its essential role in linking 
microbiota dysbiosis, infections and chronic inflammation. Finally, we propose 
the NF-κB pathway as a main therapeutic target for inflammatory intestinal 
disorders and discuss current inhibitory therapies in use.

Copyright © 2026 Khasanov, Boettcher, Wessel, Schäfer and Tapia-Laliena.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1816653
PMCID: PMC13171789
PMID: 42148126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author LW declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


52. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2026 May 6:2026.05.01.720931. doi: 
10.64898/2026.05.01.720931.

Stromal state plasticity defines risk and therapeutic opportunity in 
recalcitrant inflammatory bowel disease.

Tindle C, Penrose HM, Sinha S, Mullick M, Carpio-Perkins K, Hayashi M, 
Carpinelli SS, McLaren E, Hsieh CC, Zablan K, Le HN, Neill J, Katkar GD, 
Sandborn WJ, Boland BS, Ghosh P.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) remain a relapsing, treatment-refractory 
disorder marked by progressive tissue injury and inflammation despite expanding 
immune-targeted therapies. We established a prospective cohort integrating 
stromal biobanking, functional phenotyping, cross-cohort benchmarking, and 
outcome modeling to define disease-anchored cellular states. Colonic 
myofibroblasts from 34 individuals spanning health, ulcerative colitis, and 
Crohn's disease resolved into two dominant states : inflammatory ( IMFs ) and 
quiescent ( QMFs ) myofibroblasts. IMF predominance at recruitment forecasted 
progressive disease, increasing odds of worsening endoscopic severity despite 
therapy escalation by ∼4.6 during follow-up, thereby linking early stromal 
biology to clinical endpoints. Unlike QMFs, IMFs exhibited a 
senescence-associated secretory phenotype that impaired epithelial stemness, 
barrier integrity, and innate immune fitness. State-guided prioritization 
identified EDNRB-antagonism as a high-confidence stromal intervention, reversing 
pathogenic phenotypes across orthogonal assays and species. Outcome simulation 
positioned stromal-state reversibility by EDNRB-antagonism as a precision axis, 
reducing odds of recalcitrance by ∼96.4% and reframing treatment resistance as a 
reversible stromal state.
GRAPHIC ABSTRACT: In this work, Tindle et al. identify reversible stromal states 
that govern recalcitrant IBD and nominate precision reprogramming of pathogenic 
myofibroblasts as a new therapeutic strategy.

DOI: 10.64898/2026.05.01.720931
PMCID: PMC13174420
PMID: 42146514


53. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2026 May 4:2026.05.03.26352309. doi: 
10.64898/2026.05.03.26352309.

Tryptophan pathway metabotypes associate with disease activity and 
immune-metabolic dysfunction in inflammatory bowel disease.

Harris DMM(1)(2)(3), Bourgonje AR(4)(5), Braadland PR(6)(7)(8), McShane C(9), 
Welz L(1)(2), Waschina S(3), Ibing S(10)(11), Tran F(1)(2), Sands BE(4), 
Dubinsky M(4), Suarez-Farinas M(10)(12), Argmann C(10), Ueland PM(13), McCann 
A(13), Detlie TE(14), Bengtson MB(15), Kristensen V(16)(7), Franke A(1), 
Colombel JF(4), Rosenstiel P(1), Croitoru K(9)(17), Sokol H(18)(19)(20), Turpin 
W(9)(17), Hov JR(6), Høivik ML(8)(16), Ungaro RC(4), Schreiber S(1)(2), Aden 
K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, University Medical Center 
Schleswig-Holstein and Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine I, University Medical Center 
Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel, Germany.
(3)Institute for Human Nutrition and Food Science, Division of Nutriinformatics, 
Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(4)The Henry D. Janowitz Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.
(6)Research Institute of Internal Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, 
Norway.
(7)Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(8)Norwegian PSC Research Center, Department of Transplantation Medicine, Oslo, 
University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(9)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(10)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(11)Hasso Plattner Institute, Digital Engineering Faculty, University of 
Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany.
(12)Department of Population Health Science and Policy, Icahn School of Medicine 
at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(13)Bevital AS, Bergen, Norway.
(14)Department of Gastroenterology, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, 
Norway.
(15)Department of Gastroenterology, Vestfold Hospital Trust, Tønsberg, Norway.
(16)Department of Gastroenterology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(17)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(18)Sorbonne Université, INSERM UMRS-938, Centre de Recherche Saint-Antoine, 
CRSA, AP-HP, F-75012 Paris, France.
(19)Gut, Liver & Microbiome Research (GLIMMER) FHU, Paris, France.
(20)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAe, AgroParisTech, Micalis Institute, 
Jouy-en-Josas, France.

BACKGROUND: Tryptophan (Trp) metabolism is a central immunometabolic axis in 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and has been linked to inflammatory activity 
and immune regulation. While individual Trp metabolites have been associated 
with disease severity and treatment response, systems-level frameworks to define 
metabolic subtypes in IBD are lacking.
OBJECTIVE: To identify reproducible Trp-related metabolic subtypes 
("metabotypes") in IBD and assess their association with disease activity, 
clinical outcomes, and early disease development.
DESIGN: We applied unsupervised clustering to serum concentrations of 16 
Trp-related metabolites in a discovery cohort of patients with IBD undergoing 
biologic induction therapy (n=134). Metabotypes were validated in three 
independent IBD cohorts (total n>2,800), a healthy reference population, and a 
prospective cohort of first-degree relatives at risk for Crohn's disease. 
Associations with disease activity, longitudinal outcomes, and metabolic 
pathways were assessed using multivariable regression and survival analysis.
RESULTS: Four reproducible metabotypes with distinct metabolite profiles were 
identified across cohorts: Low Kyna, High Kyna, High Quin, and Balanced. Low 
Kyna and High Quin metabotypes were consistently associated with increased 
inflammatory activity and adverse clinical outcomes, including increased risk of 
treatment escalation and disease progression. Pathway-level analyses revealed 
alterations in NAD-related, lipid, and amino acid pathways between inflammatory 
metabotypes. A metabotype resembling inflammatory disease states was enriched in 
individuals who later developed Crohn's disease in a prospective pre-disease 
cohort.
CONCLUSION: Trp-linked metabotypes define reproducible immunometabolic states in 
IBD that associate with disease activity and clinical outcomes and may precede 
disease onset. These findings provide a framework for metabolic stratification 
and biomarker-guided clinical trials targeting immunometabolic pathways.

DOI: 10.64898/2026.05.03.26352309
PMCID: PMC13174703
PMID: 42145595

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors disclose no 
conflict of interest related to the study.


54. Dig Liver Dis. 2026 Jul;58(7):919-924. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2026.04.019. Epub
2026  May 16.

Repeated intravenous weight-based ustekinumab maintenance as an optimization 
strategy for Crohn's disease patients with loss of response to standard therapy.

Lu C(1), Wei J(2), Ling T(3), Li Y(4), Chen Y(5), Ding J(6), Wang Q(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Jinhua Municipal Central Hospital, Jinhua, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: luchong2463@163.com.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Jinhua Municipal Central Hospital, Jinhua, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: weijiaojiao0323@163.com.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Jinhua Municipal Central Hospital, Jinhua, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: lingtao1993@163.com.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Jinhua Municipal Central Hospital, Jinhua, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: 15958408029@163.com.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Jinhua Municipal Central Hospital, Jinhua, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: zxyy_25@163.com.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, Jinhua Municipal Central Hospital, Jinhua, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: zxyydada66@163.com.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Jinhua Municipal Central Hospital, Jinhua, 
Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: wqy1177xhk@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Some patients with Crohn's disease (CD) lose response to Ustekinumab 
(UST) standard therapy. Currently, there is limited evidence on efficacy of 
repeated intravenous (IV) weight-based UST maintenance in refractory CD . Here, 
we investigated the efficacy and safety of the optimization therapy in such 
patients.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, 134 CD patients who had lost their 
response to UST were enrolled. Clinical response and remission were assessed at 
weeks 21 and 42 using the Harvey-Bradshaw Index, while secondary outcomes 
included biochemical and endoscopic measures. Safety was monitored throughout 
the study.
RESULTS: At week 21, the clinical response and remission rates were 76.9% and 
43.3%, respectively. These rates improved to 88.6% and 73.2% by week 42. Among 
the 75 patients who underwent endoscopic evaluation, 52.0% achieved endoscopic 
remission, and 76.0% demonstrated a response. Furthermore, the majority of 
patients (91.8%, 123/134) remained on the optimization regimen throughout week 
42, and no significant adverse events were reported.
CONCLUSION: Repeated IV weight-based UST maintenance has shown significant and 
sustained clinical, biochemical, and endoscopic improvements in most patients 
who have lost their response to standard UST therapy. This optimized regimen 
offers a promising therapeutic strategy for individuals who would otherwise need 
to switch to other biologics or dual-targeted therapies.

Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2026.04.019
PMID: 42142993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
report no conflicts of interest in this work.


55. Ther Adv Gastroenterol. 2026 May 7;19:17562848261445516. doi: 
10.1177/17562848261445516. eCollection 2026.

Exclusive enteral nutrition and infliximab combination therapy are superior to 
monotherapy in inducing endoscopic response in active adult Crohn's disease.

Li X(1), Wu X(2), Kang D(3), Fang L(3), Liu C(3), Shi Y(3), Yang L(4), Liu 
Z(5)(6), Chen L(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease Research and Department of 
Gastroenterology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The Yancheng Clinical College of Xuzhou 
Medical University, Yancheng, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease Research and Department of 
Gastroenterology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, The Fifth Clinical Medical College of Henan 
University of Chinese Medicine, Zhengzhou People's Hospital, Zhengzhou, Henan 
450053, China.
(5)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease Research and Department of 
Gastroenterology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, 
No. 301, Yanchang Road, Shanghai 200072, China.
(6)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease Research and Department of 
Gastroenterology, The Affiliated Suzhou Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, 
Suzhou Municipal Hospital, Gusu School, Nanjing Medical University, Suzhou, 
China.
(7)Center for Inflammatory Bowel Disease Research and Department of 
Gastroenterology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, No. 301, Yanchang Zhong Road, Jingan District, Shanghai 200072, China.

BACKGROUND: Anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (anti-TNFα) agents assume a 
significant role in the management of Crohn's disease (CD). Exclusive enteral 
nutrition (EEN) is as effective as corticosteroids for inducing remission in 
children with active CD, but less effective in adults. Few studies have compared 
the relative effectiveness of these strategies in achieving endoscopic 
improvement and symptom relief.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to compare the efficacy of EEN, infliximab (IFX), and 
combination therapy in adult patients with CD.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS: Between March 2021 and June 2024, 270 adult patients with active CD 
were recruited and received EEN, IFX, or combination treatment for 14 weeks. 
Propensity-score (PS) matching was conducted to balance the baseline 
characteristics across the three groups. The fecal 16S rRNA sequencing and 
metabolomics analyses were applied to further analyze the underlying mechanism 
involved in combination and monotherapy.
RESULTS: Of the 270 reviewed patients, a total of 146 PS-matched adult CD 
patients who received EEN (n = 29), IFX (n = 56), and combination therapy 
(n = 61), respectively, were analyzed. The combination therapy of EEN plus IFX 
demonstrated greater improvement in endoscopic response at week 14 compared to 
both the EEN group (p = 0.021) and the IFX group (p = 0.032), but not in 
endoscopic remission. Combination therapy also exhibited a significantly higher 
clinical response rate compared with EEN (p = 0.027) and IFX (p = 0.038) 
monotherapy, but no significant difference in clinical remission. Furthermore, 
compared with IFX monotherapy, combination therapy increased the IFX trough 
level at week 14 (p < 0.001). Fecal 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that 
combination therapy successfully restored the abundance of Bacteroidetes and 
related genera. Targeted metabolomics further confirmed a significant increase 
in short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) and key metabolites (e.g., indolelactic acid) 
in fecal samples 14 weeks after combination therapy.
CONCLUSION: Combination therapy is more effective than EEN or IFX monotherapy 
for short-term endoscopic and clinical response. Mechanistically, combination 
therapy reshapes the gut microbiota, restores levels of SCFAs, and increases key 
protective fecal metabolites, offering a promising strategy for the management 
of CD.

Plain Language Summary: Exclusive enteral nutrition and anti-TNF combination 
therapy in active adult Crohn’s disease What is already known about this 
subject? - Anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (anti-TNFα) agents assume a 
significant role in the management of Crohn’s disease (CD). - Exclusive enteral 
nutrition (EEN) is EEN is as effective as corticosteroids for inducing remission 
in children with active CD, but it shows inferior clinical efficacy in adults 
with CD. - The combined utilization of these approaches and their efficacy in 
achieving endoscopic improvement, symptom alleviation, and the underlying 
mechanisms in adult CD have not yet been comprehensively elucidated. What are 
the new findings? - Compared with EEN or IFX monotherapy, combination therapy is 
more effective in inducing short-term endoscopic response and clinical response. 
- Combination therapy markedly increases the serum trough levels of IFX and 
improves the nutritional status compared with IFX monotherapy. 
- Mechanistically, combination therapy restores the abundance of Bacteroidetes 
and related genera, and enhances short chain fatty acids and key metabolites 
(e.g., indolelactic acid) in fecal samples. How might it impact clinical 
practice in the foreseeable future? - EEN and IFX combination therapy is 
effective in inducing short-term endoscopic response, clinical response, and 
improvement in nutritional status in adult CD patient. Optimizing the 
nutritional status of patients with CD plays a crucial role in the therapeutic 
management of the disease, especially when combined with biologic agents.

© The Author(s), 2026.

DOI: 10.1177/17562848261445516
PMCID: PMC13167384
PMID: 42136877

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


56. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2026 May 14:izag066. doi: 10.1093/ibd/izag066. Online
ahead  of print.

CB2R promotes T cell gut homing and exacerbates ileitis in a murine Crohn's 
model.

Leddy RS(1)(2), Hudachek CL(3), Phelan HM(1)(2), Aherne CM(2)(4), Romero J(5), 
Hillard CJ(6), Wang Z(7), Eissner G(7), Jedlicka P(8), Collins CB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biomolecular and Biomedical Science, University College Dublin, 
Dublin, Ireland.
(2)UCD Conway Institute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research, University 
College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(3)Section of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Department of 
Pediatrics, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO, United 
States.
(4)School of Medicine, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(5)Faculty of Experimental Sciences, Universidad Francisco de Vitoria, Pozuelo 
de Alarcón, Spain.
(6)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Neuroscience Research Center, 
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, United States.
(7)Systems Biology Ireland, School of Medicine, University College Dublin, 
Dublin, Ireland.
(8)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, CO, United States.

Leukocyte trafficking is a critical step in the development of chronic 
intestinal diseases such as Crohn's disease. While strategies that block gut 
homing have yielded partial success, this disease remains uncurable leaving an 
unmet clinical need. This is the first paper to describe a role for cannabinoid 
receptor 2 (CB2R) signaling in promoting retinoic acid-mediated induction of the 
gut homing associated integrin heterodimer α4β7. Using in vitro and in vivo 
models, we characterized the effects of pharmacological CB2R agonists and 
inverse agonists on T cell homing receptor expression and transmigration across 
gut-associated endothelial barriers. This extracellular signal-regulated 
kinase-dependent process coincides with increased T cell adherence in response 
to CB2R agonism with JWH-133. These effects were reversed with an inverse 
agonist GP-1a in a CB2R dependent manner. Selective deletion of CB2R using 
CRISPR in vitro or CD4Cre/+ floxed mice in vivo resulted in impaired endothelial 
cell adherence and decreased diapedesis into the ileal lamina propria. T 
cell-specific deletion of CNR2, the gene encoding CB2R, attenuated chronic 
murine ileitis characterized by decreased naïve T cell infiltration and loss of 
tissue architecture in 20-week-old TNFΔARE/+ mice. This study supports further 
therapeutic development of CB2R-targeting drugs for the treatment of 
inflammatory bowel disease.

© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s 
& Colitis Foundation.

DOI: 10.1093/ibd/izag066
PMID: 42133571


57. Crohns Colitis 360. 2026 Apr 24;8(2):otag036. doi: 10.1093/crocol/otag036. 
eCollection 2026 Apr.

Prevalence, age-distribution, and impact on management of acne in patients on 
upadacitinib for inflammatory bowel disease: insights from a single-center 
survey.

Spencer EA(1)(2), Smyth M(1)(2), Cices A(2)(3), Mercurio A(1)(2), Helmus 
D(1)(2)(4), Ungaro RC(2)(4), Dubinsky MC(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Department of 
Pediatrics, Mount Sinai, Icahn School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.
(2)Susan & Leonard Feinstein IBD Center, Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United 
States.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, 
NY, United States.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai, Icahn 
School of Medicine, New York, NY, United States.

BACKGROUND: Upadacitinib (UPA), an oral JAK1 inhibitor, has been associated with 
acne in up to 7% of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in clinical 
trials. Emerging real-world evidence suggests the true prevalence may be higher, 
particularly among adolescents and young adults. This study evaluated the 
prevalence, age distribution, and impact of UPA-associated acne on treatment 
decisions in a real-world IBD cohort.
METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was conducted within a prospective IBD BioBank 
at a tertiary care center. All patients currently or previously treated with UPA 
(n = 110) were invited to complete a 22-item electronic survey assessing acne 
history before and after UPA initiation, acne severity, treatments used, 
awareness of acne as a side effect, and influence on medication management.
RESULTS: The survey was completed by 100 patients (91% response rate); 54% had 
Crohn's disease and 46% ulcerative colitis. The median age was 23 years (IQR 
18-35, range 7-66). Prior to UPA, 25% reported acne, predominantly mild. After 
starting UPA, 48% experienced new or worsening acne; 38% reported it as 
moderate, 29% as severe, and 46% sought dermatologic care. At the time of the 
survey (median 458 days), 52% continued to have acne, well-controlled in only ¼ 
with treatment; 5% had discontinued UPA due to acne. While 80% felt the benefits 
of UPA outweighed acne-related concerns, 7% disagreed-despite most achieving 
clinical remission. Acne was significantly less prevalent at the extremes of 
age, <13 and >50 (P = .003).
CONCLUSION: Acne is a frequent and sometimes treatment-limiting side effect of 
UPA. Targeted counseling may support adherence.

© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s 
& Colitis Foundation.

DOI: 10.1093/crocol/otag036
PMCID: PMC13161555
PMID: 42131777

Conflict of interest statement: E.A.S.: Research Support from the National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) (K23DK125760); 
advisory board for Celltrion. A.C.: Consulting fees from Pfizer, Blueprint, 
DERMA E, Veradermics, Galderma, Eli Lilly, Oruka, CeraVe, UCB, Sanofi, Apogee, 
Incyte, Novartis, LEO Pharma, Almirall, Botanix, Bristol Myers Squibb, Fre 
Skincare, and Castle Biosciences; Research support (paid to her institution) 
from Eli Lilly, Incyte, Johnson & Johnson, Moonlake, Novartis, Merck, and 
AbbVie; Speaker fees from Almirall, Galderma, and Sanofi. M.S.,A.M., and D.H.: 
No COI to report. R.U.: Advisory board member or consultant: AbbVie, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Celltrion, ECM Therapeutics, Genentech, Janssen, Lily, Pfizer, 
Roivant, Sanofi, and Takeda; Research support: AbbVie, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Lilly and Pfizer. M.C.D.: Consulting fees from Abbvie, Abivax, AstraZeneca, BMS, 
Celltrion, Eli Lilly, Genentech, Janssen, Johnson and Johnson, Merck, Pfizer, 
Prometheus Labs, Sanofi, Spyre, Takeda, Target PharmaSolutions.


58. Crohns Colitis 360. 2026 Apr 20;8(2):otag026. doi: 10.1093/crocol/otag026. 
eCollection 2026 Apr.

Evaluation of a pharmacist directed treat to target approach in patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease receiving upadacitinib or risankizumab.

Han J(1), Puangampai A(1)(2), Man B(1), Kandah HM(1), Rubin DT(2), Choi 
DK(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Chicago Medicine, Chicago, IL 60637, 
United States.
(2)Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, University of Chicago Medicine, Chicago, 
IL 60637, United States.

BACKGROUND: An evolving strategy to enhance quality of life and remission rates 
in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is the treat-to-target approach. This 
approach offers a structured algorithm for therapeutic interventions, yet its 
implementation faces challenges, such as administrative burden and limited 
resources. This study elucidates the pharmacist's role in the treat-to-target 
approach.
METHODS: Retrospective chart review was conducted from August 7 to December 15, 
2023. Patients ≥ 18 years of age, diagnosed with IBD, initiated on upadacitinib 
or risankizumab were included. "Treat-to-target" was defined as serial 
communication and monitoring of symptoms, clinical response, and laboratory 
values at predefined time points after starting therapy. A pharmacist-led 
follow-up protocol was conducted by an embedded IBD clinical pharmacist who 
assessed successful therapy initiation, medication adherence, steroid use, 
adverse effects, clinical disease activity, need for clinic visits, and lab 
monitoring at 2, 4, 8, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months after therapy 
initiation.
RESULTS: It was found that 227 patients initiated upadacitinib, and 210 
initiated risankizumab. The overall success rate in reaching patients for 
through the pharmacist-directed follow-up protocol was 84%. The IBD Pharmacist 
made 3512 interventions, the most common being therapy continuation and lab 
monitoring recommendations. Therapy discontinuations were observed, particularly 
between 12 weeks and 6 months post-initiation.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate a high participation rate to a pharmacist-led 
follow-up and monitoring protocol for patients receiving upadacitinib and 
risankizumab therapy. These findings underscore the importance of pharmacist-led 
interventions in ensuring continuity of care and tracking patient progress with 
IBD therapies, which are key elements of a successful treat-to-target strategy.

© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s 
& Colitis Foundation.

DOI: 10.1093/crocol/otag026
PMCID: PMC13166866
PMID: 42131776

Conflict of interest statement: David T. Rubin has served as a consultant for 
Abbvie, Altrubio, Apex, Avalo Therapeutics, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Buhlmann 
Diagnostics Corp, Celgene, Connect BioPharma, Intouch Group, Iterative Health, 
Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Lilly, Pfizer, Samsung Neurologica, and Takeda. He 
serves on the Board of Trustees for the Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation and is on 
the Board of Directors for Cornerstones Health. David Choi has served on the 
speaker bureau for Janssen Pharmaceuticals and as a consultant to Abbvie, 
Bristol Myers Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Janssen Pharmaceuticals. Bernice 
Man, Huda-Marie Kandah, Justin Han, and Archariya Puangampai have no 
disclosures.


59. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2026 Jul 1;42(4):214-222. doi: 
10.1097/MOG.0000000000001175. Epub 2026 May 14.

Intestinal ultrasound in inflammatory bowel disease: current evidence and future 
directions.

Abu Hamad MR(1), Gergely M(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology.
(2)Inflammatory Bowel Diseases Center, Division of Gastroenterology, Washington 
University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, Missouri, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Intestinal ultrasound (IUS) as a noninvasive tool for 
assessment and longitudinal monitoring of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is 
gaining attention. This review examines current evidence supporting the 
diagnostic performance and utility of IUS in IBD and explores expanding 
applications, use in special populations, and remaining gaps in knowledge.
RECENT FINDINGS: Evidence supports its diagnostic accuracy in Crohn's disease 
(CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). Bowel wall thickness (BWT) and vascularity 
through color Doppler signal (CDS) are among the most reliable markers of 
inflammation. IUS demonstrates utility for disease monitoring, assessment of 
treatment response, and prediction of long-term outcomes. Activity indices have 
been externally validated, demonstrating reproducibility. Beyond luminal 
assessment, transmural remission (TR) is emerging as a therapeutic target. 
Advanced techniques, including contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) and 
small-intestine contrast ultrasound (SICUS), may provide additional value in 
selected clinical scenarios, although their use remains limited to specialized 
settings.
SUMMARY: IUS is an important practical tool in IBD, complementing endoscopy and 
biomarkers. Although diagnostic performance is well established, future work 
should focus on IUS-driven treatment strategies, validation of meaningful 
endpoints, and addressing barriers to implementation.

Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000001175
PMID: 42130307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Ther Adv Gastroenterol. 2026 May 5;19:17562848261446459. doi: 
10.1177/17562848261446459. eCollection 2026.

Phenotype-driven management in ileocecal Crohn's disease: a narrative review 
with a proposed research framework.

Nguyen CD(1)(2), Dang LM(3)(4), Vo TD(1)(5), Bui HH(1), Pal P(6), Kobayashi 
T(7), Ye BD(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University Medical Center Ho Chi Minh City, 
Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(2)Clinical Sciences (International Program), Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)IBD Unit, Department of Gastroenterology, University Medical Center Ho Chi 
Minh City, 215 Hong Bang Street, Cho Lon Ward, Ho Chi Minh City 700000, Vietnam.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastro-Hepato Integrated Research Team 
(GHIRT-002.TCM2025), School of Medicine, University of Medicine and Pharmacy at 
Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy at Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(6)AIG Hospitals, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad, Telangana, India.
(7)Center for Advanced IBD Research and Treatment, Kitasato University Kitasato 
Institute Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology and Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, Asan 
Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

The management of localized ileocecal Crohn's disease (CD) requires balancing 
escalation of medical therapy against early surgical resection. While clinical 
phenotyping guides initial management, standard assessments often fail to 
distinguish reversible inflammation from irreversible fibrosis. This limitation 
remains a major barrier to personalized care. This narrative review aims to 
review current evidence on clinical features, imaging modalities, and biomarkers 
relevant to intestinal fibrosis and to propose a phenotype-driven framework for 
treatment selection in localized ileocecal CD. To address this, we synthesized 
current literature on intestinal fibrogenesis, cross-sectional imaging 
(magnetization transfer MRI (MT-MRI), shear wave elastography (SWE)), and 
therapeutic outcomes. Evidence was integrated to develop a conceptual algorithm 
incorporating disease phenotype, quantitative imaging markers, and 
multidisciplinary decision-making. The proposed two-tiered framework begins with 
the Montreal classification (Tier 1). B1 phenotypes are directed toward early 
intensive treat-to-target medical strategies, while B3 phenotypes may require 
individualized surgical management, sometimes preceded by short-term medical 
optimization depending on complication severity. For the challenging B2 
phenotype, we propose a precision medicine pathway (Tier 2) utilizing 
quantitative imaging, such as MT-MRI or SWE. This pathway is intended to help 
stratify B2 strictures into fibrosis-dominant, inflammation-dominant, or 
indeterminate phenotypes within a multidisciplinary decision-making process. A 
phenotype-driven approach incorporating clinical and imaging information may 
help inform therapeutic decision-making across the spectrum of ileocecal CD, 
particularly in the management of stricturing disease. The proposed framework 
provides a roadmap for prospective validation and future clinical trials aimed 
at optimizing treatment selection in stricturing disease.

Plain Language Summary: A simpler way to guide treatment decisions in ileocecal 
Crohn’s disease: a review and proposed research pathway Crohn’s disease can 
behave in different ways. In some people, inflammation is the main problem. In 
others, bowel damage and scarring can narrow the intestine and cause a 
stricture. These different disease patterns may need different treatments, but 
in everyday practice it is often difficult to tell which process is dominant. 
This review focuses on ileocecal Crohn’s disease, a common form that affects the 
end of the small bowel and the beginning of the large bowel. We summarize 
current evidence on how doctors assess disease behavior using symptoms, 
endoscopy, and cross-sectional imaging such as magnetic resonance enterography 
or computed tomography enterography. We also discuss newer imaging methods that 
may help estimate the amount of fibrosis, or scarring, inside a stricture. Based 
on this evidence, we propose a two-tier framework. The first tier reflects 
current validated care: patients are assessed and classified using standard 
clinical, endoscopic, and imaging findings. The second tier is a proposed 
pathway for future research. In this pathway, quantitative imaging could be 
combined with multidisciplinary discussion to help distinguish 
inflammation-dominant disease, fibrosis-dominant disease, and cases that fall 
into a mixed or uncertain zone. This approach is not yet ready for routine use 
and still requires prospective validation. However, it may provide a practical 
research roadmap for improving treatment selection, including when to intensify 
medical therapy and when earlier surgery may be more appropriate.

© The Author(s), 2026.

DOI: 10.1177/17562848261446459
PMCID: PMC13158495
PMID: 42125215

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.61. Front Gastroenterol (Lausanne). 2026 Apr 27;5:1783772. doi: 
10.3389/fgstr.2026.1783772. eCollection 2026.

Current status of 5-aminosalicylic acid in Crohn's disease treatment: a 
nationwide survey and analysis of perspectives and practice patterns among 
inflammatory bowel disease physicians.

Li Y(1), Chen C(1), Wang C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology Endoscopy Center, Quanzhou First Hospital, 
Quanzhou, Fujian, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian 
Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the perspectives and clinical practice patterns of 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) physicians regarding the use of 
5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) in Crohn's disease (CD).
METHODS: A 21-item questionnaire was distributed to IBD physicians across 
various regions in mainland China via WeChat. The survey evaluated prescription 
frequencies, indications, dosages, and physician rationales. The questionnaire 
was pilot-tested among 30 clinicians of varying seniority levels to ensure 
clarity and content validity. Responses were anonymized, and duplicate 
submissions were prevented through WeChat account verification. Statistical 
analysis employed the chi-square test.
RESULTS: Among 615 respondents, 90.4% reported prescribing 5-ASA for CD 
patients. It was primarily used for mild disease (91.7%), colonic involvement 
(77.9%), and non-stricturing, non-penetrating phenotypes (91.4%). For induction 
therapy, 58.1% of physicians utilized 5-ASA, with 89.2% employing it in 
combination regimens (predominantly with corticosteroids, 90.3%). Furthermore, 
83.1% prescribed 5-ASA for maintenance therapy. The primary rationales cited 
were its favorable safety profile (75.5%) and perceived efficacy in mild cases 
(68.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite unequivocal evidence and international guidelines 
recommending against the routine use of 5-ASA in CD, it remains pervasively 
prescribed by Chinese clinicians. This highlights a profound discrepancy between 
evidence-based guidance and real-world practice. Such therapeutic inertia risks 
delaying the initiation of highly effective therapies, underscoring an urgent 
need for targeted continuing medical education to optimize CD management.

Copyright © 2026 Li, Chen and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fgstr.2026.1783772
PMCID: PMC13158092
PMID: 42125071

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


62. Gastro Hep Adv. 2026 Apr 7;5(6):100953. doi: 10.1016/j.gastha.2026.100953. 
eCollection 2026.

Impact of Proactive Therapeutic Drug Monitoring on Infliximab Maintenance 
Therapy and Clinical Outcomes in Pediatric Inflammatory Bowel Disease: A 
Randomized Controlled Trial and Review of Literature.

Cares K(1), Thomas R(2), Stolinski A(3), Parker J(3), El-Baba M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Children's Hospital of Michigan, 
Detroit, Michigan.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Central Michigan University School of Medicine 
Clinical Institute, Children's Research Institute, Children's Hospital of 
Michigan, Detroit, Michigan.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Wayne State University Clinical Research Service 
Center, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Detroit, Michigan.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Despite potential benefits of anti-TNF proactive 
therapeutic drug monitoring (pTDM), few randomized controlled trials have 
assessed the impact of maintenance therapy in children with inflammatory bowel 
disease.
METHODS: This single-center randomized controlled trial assessed pTDM in 
pediatric patients receiving infliximab maintenance therapy. Patients aged 5-21 
years, diagnosed with moderate to severe Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, 
were enrolled. Following optimization to target infliximab concentrations, 
participants were randomized to either the standard of care (SOC) group, with 
treatment adjustments based on clinical presentation alone, or to pTDM, where 
management additionally incorporated infliximab levels regardless of clinical 
status. Clinical outcomes were monitored over 52 weeks. All authors had access 
to the study data and reviewed and approved the final manuscript.
RESULTS: Fifty-one patients enrolled in the study, and 39 completed the trial; 
72.5% required dose optimization prior to randomization, improving Pediatric 
Ulcerative Colitis Activity Index/Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index 
scores from 9.13 to 6.31(P = .002). The primary outcome, need for rescue 
therapy, occurred more often in SOC than pTDM (22% vs 9.5%, P = .387).
CONCLUSION: pTDM was associated with reduced need for rescue therapy compared to 
SOC. Although not statistically significant, these findings are clinically 
relevant, supporting potential benefits of pTDM in pediatric inflammatory bowel 
disease patients on infliximab maintenance therapy. Further investigation is 
required to refine the timing and optimal strategies for implementation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastha.2026.100953
PMCID: PMC13158754
PMID: 42125037


63. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2026 Jul 1;42(4):247-254. doi: 
10.1097/MOG.0000000000001176. Epub 2026 May 12.

Roles for specialized secretory epithelial cells in inflammatory bowel disease.

Huang Z(1)(2)(3), Brown ME(1)(2)(3), Lau KS(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology and Program in Developmental 
Biology, Vanderbilt University.
(2)Epithelial Biology Center, Vanderbilt University Medical Center.
(3)Center for Computational Systems Biology, Vanderbilt University.
(4)Department of Surgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Current inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) therapies mainly 
target immune pathways, yet many patients fail to achieve durable remission, 
highlighting the need to understand epithelial-intrinsic drivers of chronic 
inflammation and barrier defects. Recent single-cell, spatial, and functional 
studies have redefined secretory epithelial lineages as active regulators of 
mucosal immunity, microbial containment, and tissue recovery.
RECENT FINDINGS: Goblet cells are increasingly recognized as heterogeneous 
barrier sentinels whose region-specific alterations in mucus organization, 
microbial sensing, and stress responses can influence disease location and 
variability. Tuft cells are chemosensory hubs that connect luminal cues to 
type-2 and neuroimmune circuits, with evidence linking tuft-cell programs to 
repair-associated remodeling in inflammatory settings. Paneth cell dysfunction 
in ileal Crohn's disease frequently reflects disrupted antimicrobial and 
stress-adaptation programs, while colonic ulcerative colitis can exhibit 
injury-associated Paneth-like remodeling within the regenerative epithelium.
SUMMARY: Secretory epithelial lineages actively regulate mucosal immunity and 
barrier integrity through region-dependent programs that shift during chronic 
inflammation. Defining these lineage states and their signaling outputs can 
improve patient stratification and reveal epithelial-targeted therapeutic 
strategies that complement immunomodulatory treatment.

Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0000000000001176
PMCID: PMC13258108
PMID: 42124523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.


64. J Clin Med. 2026 Apr 27;15(9):3319. doi: 10.3390/jcm15093319.

Systemic Immune Signatures of Endoscopic-Histologic Discordance in Inflammatory 
Bowel Disease: A Pilot Study.

Martinos N(1), Kroupis C(2), Gypari M(3), Kranidiotis G(1), Karakoidas C(1), 
Konstantinou M(3), Lazaris AC(4), Thomopoulou GE(5).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Department, Naval Hospital of Athens, 70 Dinokratous St., 
115 21 Athens, Greece.
(2)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Attikon University General Hospital, 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 124 62 Athens, Greece.
(3)Department of Pathology, Naval Hospital of Athens, 70 Dinokratous St., 115 21 
Athens, Greece.
(4)First Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, 115 27 Athens, Greece.
(5)Cytopathology Department, Attikon University General Hospital, School of 
Medicine, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 124 62 Athens, Greece.

Background: Endoscopic remission is a central therapeutic target in inflammatory 
bowel disease (IBD); however, histologic inflammation may persist despite 
apparent mucosal healing. The biological mechanisms underlying 
endoscopic-histologic discordance remain incompletely defined. We aimed to 
characterize systemic cytokine patterns associated with discordant disease. 
Methods: In this prospective cross-sectional study, 59 patients with IBD 
undergoing clinically indicated colonoscopy underwent concurrent endoscopic and 
histologic assessment. Endoscopic remission was defined as a Mayo endoscopic 
subscore ≤ 1 for ulcerative colitis and SES-CD ≤ 2 for Crohn's disease. 
Histologic healing was defined as a Geboes score < 2.0. Patients were classified 
into concordant remission, discordant disease (endoscopic remission with 
persistent histologic activity), and concordant active disease. Circulating 
interleukin (IL)-10, IL-23, and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were compared 
across phenotypes using nonparametric methods. Associations with discordant 
disease were evaluated using Firth penalized logistic regression, and model 
discrimination was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) 
analysis with bootstrap internal validation. Results: Among 36 patients in 
endoscopic remission, 14 (38.9%) exhibited persistent histologic activity. 
Discordant patients demonstrated significantly lower IL-10 and higher IL-23 
concentrations compared with concordant remission (both p < 0.001), whereas CRP 
did not differ significantly. Across phenotypes, IL-10 decreased progressively, 
while IL-23 increased stepwise (both p < 0.001). In multivariable analysis, 
lower IL-10 (OR 0.0014; 95% CI 0.000003-0.576; p = 0.032) and higher IL-23 (OR 
16.94; 95% CI 1.90-151.32; p = 0.011) were independently associated with 
discordant disease. A model incorporating IL-10 and CRP demonstrated strong 
discrimination (AUC 0.925), with further improvement after inclusion of IL-23 
(AUC 0.994), although these estimates should be interpreted with caution given 
the limited sample size. Conclusions: Endoscopic-histologic discordance is 
associated with a distinct systemic cytokine profile characterized by reduced 
IL-10 and elevated IL-23 levels, despite low CRP concentrations. These findings 
suggest incomplete restoration of immune regulatory balance and highlight the 
potential role of circulating cytokines, particularly IL-10, in identifying 
ongoing microscopic inflammation. These results are exploratory and 
hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger, prospective cohorts 
before clinical application.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm15093319
PMCID: PMC13163518
PMID: 42123052

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


65. Biomed Pharmacother. 2026 Jun;199:119401. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2026.119401. 
Epub 2026 May 12.

Expanding the therapeutic horizon in inflammatory bowel disease: The rise of 
non-cytokine compounds.

De Prado Á(1), García-Alonso FJ(2), Arribas-Rodríguez E(3), Barrio J(2), Gisbert 
JP(4), Bernardo D(5).

Author information:
(1)Mucosal Immunology Lab, Instituto de Biomedicina y Genética Molecular de 
Valladolid (Universidad de Valladolid-CSIC), Valladolid, Spain; Servicio de 
Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario Río Hortega and Instituto de 
Investigación biosanitaria de Valladolid (IBIOVALL), Valladolid, Spain. 
Electronic address: adepradosantosd@saludcastillayleon.es.
(2)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Universitario Río Hortega and 
Instituto de Investigación biosanitaria de Valladolid (IBIOVALL), Valladolid, 
Spain.
(3)Mucosal Immunology Lab, Instituto de Biomedicina y Genética Molecular de 
Valladolid (Universidad de Valladolid-CSIC), Valladolid, Spain.
(4)Gastroenterology Unit, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, Instituto de 
Investigación Sanitaria Princesa (IIS-Princesa), Universidad Autónoma de Madrid 
(UAM), and Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y 
Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Madrid, Spain.
(5)Mucosal Immunology Lab, Instituto de Biomedicina y Genética Molecular de 
Valladolid (Universidad de Valladolid-CSIC), Valladolid, Spain; Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Infecciosas (CIBERINFEC), Madrid, 
Spain.

While cytokine-targeted therapies have significantly transformed the treatment 
landscape of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), a substantial proportion of 
patients remain refractory or lose responsiveness over time. Moreover, cytokine 
blockade alone may be insufficient to control the highly complex and 
heterogeneous immune dysregulation that characterizes intestinal inflammation. 
This has prompted the development of alternative biologic and small-molecule 
therapies targeting non-cytokine pathways implicated in intestinal inflammation, 
acting at distinct regulatory levels including immune cell trafficking, 
intracellular signalling, and lymphocyte recirculation. Here, we review emerging 
and approved non-cytokine-targeted therapies in IBD, focusing on three major 
mechanistic categories: anti-integrin agents (vedolizumab, natalizumab, 
etrolizumab) that selectively block leukocyte trafficking to the intestinal 
mucosa; Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) 
pathway inhibitors (tofacitinib, upadacitinib, filgotinib) that interrupt 
multiple cytokine-mediated intracellular signalling cascades; and 
sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulators (ozanimod, etrasimod) that 
sequester lymphocytes within lymphoid organs by functionally antagonizing S1P1 
receptors. For each therapeutic class, we summarize the mechanistic rationale, 
clinical efficacy, safety profiles, and positioning within current treatment 
algorithms. Non-cytokine-based therapies represent a critical advance in the 
personalized management of IBD. By targeting complementary immunological 
mechanisms beyond cytokine inhibition, they offer new therapeutic options for 
patients with treatment-refractory disease and expand the arsenal for 
combination strategies. Furthermore, they highlight the need for precision 
medicine approaches guided by immune phenotyping, pharmacokinetic monitoring, 
and biomarker development to optimize therapeutic selection and improve 
long-term outcomes.

Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2026.119401
PMID: 42119271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest ADP: none. 
EAR: none. JGA has served as a speaker and scientific advisor for AbbVie, 
Johnson & Johnson, Lilly, and Pfizer. JB has served as a speaker, as consultant 
or has received research or education funding from Abbvie, Takeda, 
Jonhson&Johnson, Kern Pharma and Ferring. JPG has served as speaker, consultant, 
and advisory member for or has received research funding from MSD, Abbvie, 
Pfizer, Kern Pharma, Biogen, Mylan, Takeda, Janssen, Roche, Sandoz, 
Celgene/Bristol Myers, Gilead/Galapagos/Alfasigma, Lilly, Sanofi, STADA, Teva, 
Ferring, Faes Farma, Shire Pharmaceuticals, Dr. Falk Pharma, Tillotts Pharma, 
Chiesi, Casen Fleet, Gebro Pharma, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Norgine, Italfarmaco, 
and Vifor Pharma. DB has received compensation due to scientific advisory from 
Takeda, Pfizer and Janssen.


66. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2026 Jun 3;65(6):keag249. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/keag249.

Targeting fibroblasts in immune mediated inflammatory diseases: a cellular basis 
for cure?

Xenophontos M(1), Progatzky F(1), Buckley CD(1).

Author information:
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Fibroblasts constitute a major component of our stroma, the supportive bedding 
in which our tissues reside. The introduction of advanced single-cell 
technologies has greatly enhanced our appreciation of fibroblast heterogeneity 
in health and immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs). This heterogeneity 
correlates with their diverse functions, including providing architectural 
support, tissue identity, 'stromal memory', and regulating immune responses and 
fibrosis. In RA, fibroblasts contribute to both synovial inflammation and bone 
and cartilage damage, and in IBD to loss of the epithelial barrier, intestinal 
inflammation, and the development of intestinal strictures and fistulae in 
Crohn's disease. Fibroblasts have also been associated with non-response to 
current biologic therapies in RA and IBD. Targeting pathogenic fibroblast 
populations using new therapeutic modalities such as Chimeric Antigen Receptor 
(CAR) T-cell therapies may 'reset' the stroma back to health and give hope for 
cure in these debilitating IMIDs.

© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
British Society for Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keag249
PMCID: PMC13242218
PMID: 42118595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2026 May 12. doi: 10.1111/jgh.70379. Online ahead of
 print.

Asian Pacific Association of Gastroenterology (APAGE) Clinical Practice 
Guidelines on the Use of Small Molecules and IL-23 p19 Inhibitors in Ulcerative 
Colitis and Crohn's Disease.

Ooi CJ(1), Ling KL(1), Limsrivilai J(2), Wei SC(3), Mak JWY(4), Kobayashi T(5), 
Dang LM(6), Leong RW(7), Lin H(8), Weng MT(3), Ong WC(9), Ahuja V(10), Aniwan 
S(11), Hokari R(12), Lee WJJ(13)(14)(15), Leow AH(16), Leung WK(17), Lim WC(8), 
Makharia G(18), Matsuoka K(19), Mustaffa N(20), Ng SC(21)(22)(23), Philip M(24), 
Pisespongsa P(25), Ali RAR(26)(27), Ran ZH(28), Simadibrata M(29)(30)(31), 
Sollano J(32), Tan M(1)(33), Viet HD(34), Wan Ibrahim NR(35), Wu KC(36), Ye 
BD(37), Hilmi I(38); Asian Pacific Association of Gastroenterology (APAGE) 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Committee and Asian Education Network in IBD 
(AEN‐IBD).

Author information:
(1)Duke-NUS Medical School, Outram, Singapore.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine 
Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital and 
College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China.
(5)Center for Advanced IBD Research and Treatment, Kitasato University Kitasato 
Institute Hospital, Minato, Japan.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Concord Repatriation General Hospital and 
Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, 
Novena, Singapore.
(9)Division of Pharmacy, Singapore General Hospital, Bukit Merah, Singapore.
(10)Department of Gastroenterology and Human Nutrition, All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
(11)Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(12)Department of Internal Medicine, National Defense Medical College, Saitama, 
Japan.
(13)Department of Medicine, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University 
of Singapore, Clementi, Singapore.
(14)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Medicine, 
National University Health System, Kent Ridge, Singapore.
(15)iHealthtech, National University of Singapore, Clementi, Singapore.
(16)Department of Endoscopy, Pantai Hospital Kuala Lumpur, Kuala Lumpur, 
Malaysia.
(17)Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Pok Fu Lam, China.
(18)Department of Gastroenterology and Human Nutrition, All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Ansari Nagar, New Delhi, India.
(19)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Toho University Sakura Medical Center, Sakura, Japan.
(20)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medical Sciences, Health Campus, 
Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, Malaysia.
(21)Microbiota I-Center (MagIC), Hong Kong, China.
(22)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, State Key Laboratory of Digestive 
Diseases, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(23)New Cornerstone Science Laboratory, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.
(24)Lisie Hospital, Kochi, India.
(25)Faculty of Medicine, King Mongkut Institute of Technology Ladkrabang and 
Bumrungrad Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.
(26)Sir Jeffrey Cheah Sunway Medical School, Faculty of Medical and Life 
Sciences, Sunway University, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia.
(27)Gut Research Group, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, 
Malaysia.
(28)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhoupu Hospital, Shanghai University of 
Medicine & Health Sciences, Bandar Baru Bangi, China.
(29)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, Universitas Indonesia/Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jakarta, Indonesia.
(30)Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jakarta, Indonesia.
(31)Abdi Waluyo Hospital, Jakarta, Indonesia.
(32)Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, University of Santo Tomas, Manila, 
Philippines.
(33)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Singapore General Hospital, 
Bukit Merah, Singapore.
(34)Internal Medicine Faculty, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(35)Ministry of Health, Hospital Ampang, Ampang, Malaysia.
(36)Xijing Hospital of Digestive Diseases, Fourth Military Medical University, 
Xi'an, China.
(37)Department of Gastroenterology and Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center, Asan 
Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(38)Universiti Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD) are increasingly prevalent in 
the Asia Pacific region, necessitating updated, region-specific guidance on 
advanced therapies. Targeted small molecule agents, such as filgotinib, 
tofacitinib, upadacitinib, etrasimod, and ozanimod; and the IL-23 p19 inhibitors 
(guselkumab, mirikizumab, risankizumab) are the newest advanced therapies in our 
armamentarium for the treatment of IBD. The aim of the Asia-Pacific consensus 
statements is to provide context-specific recommendations integrating real-world 
evidence specific to our region. The Asian-Pacific Association of 
Gastroenterology (APAGE) Committee on Inflammatory Bowel Disease, with the 
participation of Asian Education Network in Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
(AEN-IBD), convened a forum of 34 IBD experts from 12 countries to develop 
consensus guidelines on the best practices on the use of these new advanced 
therapies using the modified Delphi method. IL-23 p19 inhibitors have shown good 
efficacy in biologic-naïve and experienced patients in both UC and CD, with 
clinical and endoscopic superiority over ustekinumab and an excellent safety 
profile. JAK inhibitors (tofacitinib and filgotinib) are efficacious in UC, and 
upadacitinib is efficacious in both UC and CD. They have a rapid time to 
response, and emerging data on acute severe UC appears promising. However, 
careful screening and monitoring is needed for known side effects, and 
prophylactic vaccination for herpes zoster should be considered. S1P modulators 
(ozanimod, etrasimod) are efficacious in UC with a favorable side effect 
profile.

© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology published by 
Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and John Wiley & Sons 
Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.70379
PMID: 42117726


68. MAbs. 2026 Dec;18(1):2670848. doi: 10.1080/19420862.2026.2670848. Epub 2026
May  10.

Discovery, development, and characterization of SPY002 and SPY072, two novel 
extended half-life monoclonal antibodies targeting TL1A: in vitro properties, in 
vivo pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and preclinical safety.

Siegel M(1), Zhu E(2), Rios D(2), Kang BH(2), McNally J(1), Kennedy M(1), Hew 
K(1), Patel P(1), Ballew O(1), Giles DH(1), Lewis EMA(1), LaFountaine J(1), Oh 
J(2), Friedman JR(1), Rose MJ(1), Shaheen H(2), Spencer AG(1).

Author information:
(1)Spyre Therapeutics, Waltham, MA, USA.
(2)Paragon Therapeutics, Waltham, MA, USA.

TL1A is a proinflammatory cytokine in the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) 
superfamily that signals via DR3 on T helper cells, innate lymphoid cells, and 
fibroblasts. Dysregulated TL1A signaling has been hypothesized to affect 
multiple immune-mediated diseases, with clinical proof of concept demonstrated 
in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. We characterized the binding 
affinity, specificity, structure, pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, and 
toxicity profiles of SPY002 and SPY072, two novel extended half-life monoclonal 
antibodies that inhibit TL1A. SPY002 and SPY072 demonstrated selective, 
high-affinity binding to human TL1A (KD ≈ 31-35 pM) and potent functional 
inhibition of DR3 signaling. Based on Fc modifications, SPY002 and SPY072 showed 
attenuated Fc effector function and increased FcRn binding at acidic pH (5.8). 
Both antibodies exhibited enhanced PK profiles in nonhuman primates, resulting 
in predicted human half-lives that support quarterly or biannual dosing. In 
toxicity studies, no drug-related adverse effects were observed with either 
antibody at exposures >10 times those anticipated in clinical trials. In a rat 
collagen-induced arthritis model, anti-TL1A antibody treatment effectively 
reduced arthritis severity, with similar efficacy to the TNF antagonist 
etanercept. In humanized mouse Imiquimod-induced psoriasis and 
2,4,6‑trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid colitis models, anti-TL1A demonstrated 
similar efficacy to anti-IL-23 and anti-TNF antibodies. These findings 
characterize two novel extended half-life TL1A antibodies and support the 
ongoing Phase 2 clinical development of SPY002 and SPY072 for immune-mediated 
diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatic diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/19420862.2026.2670848
PMCID: PMC13166218
PMID: 42106953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.G.S, D.G., E.L., J.L., J.M., J.R.F., K.H., 
M.J.R., M.K., M.S., O.B., and P.P. are employees of Spyre Therapeutics. B.H.K., 
D.R., E.Z., H.S., and J.O. are employees of Paragon Therapeutics.


69. Mediterr J Rheumatol. 2026 Mar 1;37(1):146-155. doi: 10.31138/mjr.290825.mid.
 eCollection 2026 Mar.

Age-Related Microbiota Signatures in Inflammatory Diseases: Comparative Insights 
into Paediatric and Adult Crohn's Disease, Ulcerative Colitis, and 
Spondyloarthritis.

Gimignani G(1), Borello A(2), Panetta C(3), Lucchetti L(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), 
Caorsi R(4), Gattorno M(5), Conforti A(6).

Author information:
(1)UOC Medicina Interna, Civitavecchia, Italy.
(2)Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Unit, ASL Roma 4, Civitavecchia, Italy.
(3)ASL Roma D, Lazio, Rome, Italy.
(4)Paediatrics and Rheumatology Clinic, Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genoa, 
Liguria, Italy.
(5)Unit of Rheumatology and Autoinflammatory Diseases, Istituto Giannina 
Gaslini, Genoa, Liguria, Italy.
(6)ASL Roma 4, Civitavecchia, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: The study investigated the relationship among the human microbiota 
in the development and progression of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), 
specifically Crohn's Disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC), as well as 
Spondyloarthritis (SpA), comparing paediatric and adult populations.
METHODS: The research elaborated the distinct characteristics and impacts of CD, 
UC, and SpA across age groups. It further explored the developmental stages of 
the paediatric microbiota, identifying factors like delivery method, feeding, 
and antibiotics as critical influencers. It examined specific dysbiosis patterns 
in paediatric IBD and SpA associated to disease activity. Subsequently, it 
addressed the adult microbiota's stability and variations due to diet, 
lifestyle, and medications, detailing microbial alterations in adult CD, UC, and 
SpA.
RESULTS: A comparative analysis underscores age-related differences in 
microbiota composition, clinical manifestations, and treatment responses, 
indicating greater yet weaker microbial populations in adults. In paediatric 
patients, there was a marked decrease in Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and other 
bacteria responsible for producing short-chain fatty acids. In contrast, adults 
tended to show a more persistent form of dysbiosis and lower microbiome 
resilience. These disparities in microbial and metabolic phenotypes were 
strongly associated with the activity of the disease and the response to the 
treatment, which suggests the potential of microbiota-based biomarkers to create 
age-specific diagnostic and therapeutic approaches.
CONCLUSION: This research found that microbiota play a great role in the 
inflammatory diseases and they can be of great use in the current treatments as 
well as serve as a biomarker. The new targeted therapies underscored the 
necessity of patient specific microbiome studies to enhance diagnostics and 
therapies of these disorders throughout the lifespan.

© 2026 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.31138/mjr.290825.mid
PMCID: PMC13145294
PMID: 42100057

Conflict of interest statement: None.


70. Front Immunol. 2026 Apr 22;17:1782885. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1782885. 
eCollection 2026.

Integrated transcriptome and single-cell RNA sequencing identifies small 
GTPase-associated biomarkers in ulcerative colitis.

Chen M(1)(2), Dong W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Hubei Province for Digestive System Disease, Renmin 
Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

BACKGROUND: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic, multifactorial inflammatory 
bowel disease. The involvement of small GTPase-related genes (SGRGs) in UC 
remains poorly defined. This study aims to identify SGRGs associated with UC and 
elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which they regulate the pathological 
progression of UC.
METHODS: Multiple transcriptomic datasets were integrated to identify candidate 
SGRGs in UC. Four machine learning algorithms were utilized for biomarker 
screening, followed by the construction of a diagnostic nomogram. The robustness 
of the identified biomarkers and the nomogram was rigorously evaluated through 
external validation in multiple independent cohorts. Furthermore, the 
associations between biomarkers and clinical severity, as well as their capacity 
for differential diagnosis (UC vs. Crohn's disease (CD)), were assessed. 
Functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and cross-dataset single-cell RNA 
sequencing (scRNA-seq) were employed for in-depth mechanistic investigation. In 
vivo experiments validated core gene expression.
RESULTS: Three biomarkers (ARHGEF3, S100A8, and RHOU) were successfully 
identified and validated across multiple independent cohorts. The nomogram 
constructed based on these biomarkers exhibited excellent diagnostic performance 
(AUC = 0.991 in the training set, 0.938 and 0.968 in the external validation 
cohort). Notably, the expression levels of these biomarkers significantly 
correlated with clinical severity and pathological mucosal states, demonstrating 
their capacity to reflect disease activity and monitor progression. Furthermore, 
among the identified biomarkers, ARHGEF3 significantly differentiated UC from CD 
(p < 0.05), while all three markers exhibited discriminative potential with AUC 
values exceeding 0.6. Functional annotation illustrated that they were commonly 
enriched within pathways encompassing "Tight junction" and "Leukocyte 
transendothelial migration". Immune infiltration assessment demonstrated 27 
differentially expressed immune cells (DEICs) among the UC and control groups. 
Cross-dataset scRNA-seq analysis further confirmed that macrophages were the key 
cells, exhibiting significant metabolic reprogramming and functional 
heterogeneity in UC. In vivo experiments confirmed the expression of above 
biomarkers in UC.
CONCLUSION: This study systematically identifies ARHGEF3, S100A8, and RHOU as 
novel UC diagnostic biomarkers, implicating them in disease progression via 
immune regulation and macrophage function. These findings provide a new basis 
for precise diagnosis and targeted therapy.

Copyright © 2026 Chen and Dong.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1782885
PMCID: PMC13143932
PMID: 42099592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


71. Inflammopharmacology. 2026 Jun;34(6):3797-3816. doi:
10.1007/s10787-026-02222-5.  Epub 2026 May 8.

Clinical combination therapy for IBD and promising co-delivery strategies.

Wang X(#)(1)(2)(3), Xu W(#)(4), Wu Y(5), Liu P(3), Wang B(6)(7), Li J(8), Dai 
H(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China.
(2)The College of Medical Technology, Shanghai University of Medicine & Health 
Sciences, Shanghai, 201318, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Systems Medicine for Cancer, Shanghai Cancer 
Institute, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
Shanghai, 200032, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Shanghai University of Medicine & Health Sciences 
Affiliated Zhoupu Hospital, Shanghai, 201318, China.
(5)College of Science, Shanghai University, Shanghai, 200444, China.
(6)Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China. 
bwang@shsci.org.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Systems Medicine for Cancer, Shanghai Cancer 
Institute, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
Shanghai, 200032, China. bwang@shsci.org.
(8)School of Chinese Materia Medica and Yunnan Key Laboratory of Southern 
Medicinal Utilization, Yunnan University of Chinese Medicine, Kunming, 650500, 
China. ljf7614phd@163.com.
(9)Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 201203, China. 
dhl_sh@163.com.
(10)The College of Medical Technology, Shanghai University of Medicine & Health 
Sciences, Shanghai, 201318, China. dhl_sh@163.com.
(11)State Key Laboratory of Systems Medicine for Cancer, Shanghai Cancer 
Institute, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
Shanghai, 200032, China. dhl_sh@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Biological agents are the cornerstone of first-line treatment for inflammatory 
bowel disease. However, approximately 33% of patients either fail to respond 
initially or experience diminished efficacy over time. The use of combination 
therapies, such as pairing biological agents with immunomodulators or 
small-molecule drugs, has proven effective in enhancing efficacy and mitigating 
resistance. For instance, the combination of infliximab and azathioprine 
elevated corticosteroid-free clinical remission and mucosal healing rates in 
patients with ulcerative colitis to 39.7 and 62.8%, respectively; triple therapy 
with vedolizumab, adalimumab, and methotrexate raised the week 10 clinical 
remission rate in patients with Crohn's disease to 61.8%; and combining 
guselkumab with golimumab increased the response rate in patients with 
ulcerative colitis to 83%. Despite these successes, challenges remain in 
optimizing dosing regimens and managing systemic toxicities. Nanocarriers offer 
a solution by encapsulating one or more drugs within a single system, 
facilitating targeted delivery, simplifying treatment protocols, and minimizing 
toxicity. Research indicates that advanced delivery systems, including 
poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles, mulberry leaf liposomes, and sodium 
alginate hydrogels, can enhance anti-inflammatory effects, promote mucosal 
healing, and modulate the gut microbiota, providing effective colitis treatment. 
This review examines combination dosing strategies for inflammatory bowel 
disease, nanodelivery methods, and novel approaches to advance the clinical 
application of nanodelivery technology in combination therapies.

© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-026-02222-5
PMID: 42098563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
declare no conflict of interests.


72. Biomol Biomed. 2026 May 6. doi: 10.17305/bb.2026.14124. Online ahead of
print.

Single-cell RNA sequencing of intestinal Behçet's disease identifies putative 
pathogenic programs and potential therapeutic targets.

Lyu C(1), He K(1), Li S(2), Guo Z(1), Yan X(3), Tang R(4), Shi Y(5), Tuerheng 
J(1), Zheng W(1), Jiang L(6), Hu Y(5), Wu D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, State Key Laboratory of Complex Severe and 
Rare Diseases, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(2)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing, China.
(3)Emergency Department, State Key Laboratory of Complex Severe and Rare 
Diseases, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Complex Severe and Rare Diseases, Biomedical 
Engineering Facility of National Infrastructures for Translational Medicine, 
Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(6)Biomarker Discovery and Validation Facility, Institute of Clinical Medicine, 
Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

Intestinal Behçet's disease is a rare, refractory subtype of systemic 
vasculitis, characterized by deep ileocecal ulcers and extensive clinical 
overlap with Crohn's disease, while the cellular and molecular mechanisms 
underlying its pathogenesis remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to 
delineate the single-cell transcriptomic landscape of intestinal Behçet's 
disease, characterize its putative disease-associated transcriptomic signatures, 
and identify potential candidates for differential diagnosis and targeted 
treatment. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on paired inflamed and 
histologically normal terminal ileum biopsy specimens from 4 patients with 
active intestinal Behçet's disease, and integrated our dataset with a public 
single-cell dataset from 12 Crohn's disease patients and 6 healthy controls for 
systematic bioinformatic analysis. We thereby constructed the first single-cell 
transcriptomic atlas of human intestinal Behçet's disease, profiling 98,119 
high-quality cells to identify 3 major cell lineages, 20 distinct cell 
populations, and 41 functionally defined cell subtypes. Our analysis indicated 
that intestinal Behçet's disease may be characterized by robust stromal 
compartment activation, extracellular matrix remodeling, and potentially 
distinct epithelial antimicrobial signatures, which showed notable differences 
from the prominent epithelial barrier dysfunction and interferon-driven immune 
activation observed in Crohn's disease in this parallel intra-disease comparison 
framework. We further identified predicted pathogenic crosstalk between 
endothelial cells and neutrophils, which may be mediated by 
collagen/laminin-CD44 axes. Our findings thereby characterize the potential 
pathogenic features of intestinal Behçet's disease, and provide 
hypothesis-generating clues for the clinical management of this rare disorder.

DOI: 10.17305/bb.2026.14124
PMID: 42090727


73. Front Pharmacol. 2026 Apr 20;17:1778142. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2026.1778142. 
eCollection 2026.

Gut microbiota-M cell co-culture in inflammatory bowel disease and its 
therapeutic potential in organoid platforms.

Zuo S(1), Kurumi H(1), Ogihara R(1), Kanda T(1), Isomoto H(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Nephrology, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori 
University, Yonago, Japan.

Dysbiosis of the gut microbiota is a key driver in the onset and persistence of 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, the mechanisms by which microbes 
influence mucosal immunity via specific epithelial routes remain incompletely 
elucidated. Microfold (M) cells within follicle-associated epithelium serve as a 
critical "gateway" for luminal antigens and microbes to access the mucosal 
immune system. While essential for surveillance of commensal microbes, M cells 
could also be exploited by adherent-invasive strains and adverse environmental 
factors to amplify inflammation. Recent studies suggest that both in Crohn's 
disease and ulcerative colitis, M cell abundance and function are aberrantly 
regulated, linking microbial imbalance with heterogeneous mucosal inflammatory 
phenotypes. Traditional animal models and two-dimensional culture systems retain 
limited capacity to selectively manipulate M cells without perturbing systemic 
immunity, thereby constraining systematic studies of microbiota-M cell 
co-cultures. Advances in intestinal organoid technology now enable controlled 
induction of functionally mature M cells within three-dimensional epithelial 
structures, and have started to shed light on the roles of RANKL signaling, 
negative regulators, and microbe-associated factors in M cell differentiation 
and homeostasis. In this review, we focused on key evidence supporting 
microbiota-M cell interactions in IBD, discussed how M cell-enriched intestinal 
organoid models could be leveraged to dissect the impact of pathogenic microbes, 
candidate probiotics, dietary components, and existing therapies on these 
interactions as well as to evaluate the related potential and limitations for 
microbiome interventions and drug screening. Integrating gut microbial 
plasticity with M cell epithelial entry and organoid platforms promises to 
provide new experimental foundations and theoretical support for individualized 
microbiome-based therapies and targeted mucosal treatments in IBD.

Copyright © 2026 Zuo, Kurumi, Ogihara, Kanda and Isomoto.

DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2026.1778142
PMCID: PMC13135991
PMID: 42088583

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


74. Int J Biol Sci. 2026 Apr 8;22(8):4194-4224. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.130460. 
eCollection 2026.

Ubiquitin-Modifying Enzymes as Cell-Fate Regulators in Intestinal Inflammation.

Qian C(1)(2), Ning F(1), Xu Y(1), Shao J(1), Shi B(1), Zhou C(2), Wang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 311121, 
China.
(2)Pharmacy Department, Wenzhou Central Hospital, Affiliated to Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325000, China.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's 
disease (CD), is a chronic, relapsing inflammatory disorder of the 
gastrointestinal tract. Intestinal homeostasis relies on the intricate balance 
of cell fate decisions within the intestinal epithelium and immune compartments. 
Ubiquitin-modifying enzymes (UMEs), including E2 conjugating enzymes, E3 
ubiquitin ligases, and deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs), have emerged as pivotal 
molecular regulators of these processes by orchestrating post-translational 
modifications that dictate protein stability, activity, and localization. In 
this review, we systematically summarize the essential roles of UMEs in 
modulating diverse cell-fate outcomes and their subsequent effects on intestinal 
barrier integrity and immune responses. Furthermore, we discuss the pathogenic 
dysregulation of specific UMEs in IBD and highlight their potential as 
diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Finally, we explore emerging 
strategies, including small-molecule inhibitors and PROTAC technology, for 
targeting UMEs in clinical applications. By integrating current advances, this 
review provides novel insights into the ubiquitin-mediated regulation of 
intestinal cell fate and offers new perspectives for the management of IBD and 
the prevention of colitis-associated cancer (CAC).

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.130460
PMCID: PMC13137959
PMID: 42088424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


75. Cell Death Differ. 2026 May 5. doi: 10.1038/s41418-026-01750-5. Online ahead
of  print.

Transcriptional and ubiquitinative suppression of macrophage CST3 disrupts 
colonic homeostasis through defective efferocytosis.

Wang H(#)(1), Jiao C(#)(2)(3), Xing H(#)(4), Cheng C(#)(1), Cheng S(1), Jiang 
W(1), Xu Z(5), Yang J(6), Sun J(7), Zhao J(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Affiliated Taizhou People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Taizhou School of Clinical Medicine, Nanjing Medical 
University, Taizhou, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Affiliated Taizhou People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Taizhou School of Clinical Medicine, Nanjing Medical 
University, Taizhou, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Suzhou, China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, The Affiliated Taizhou People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Taizhou School of Clinical Medicine, Nanjing Medical 
University, Taizhou, Jiangsu, China.
(5)Department of General Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing, China.
(6)Department of General Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, 
Division of Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Science and Technology of 
China, Hefei, Anhui, China. yang_jianbo@126.com.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, The Affiliated Wuxi People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, China. sunjing9002@njmu.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, The Affiliated Changzhou No.2 
People's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, The Third Affiliated Hospital 
of Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou Medical Center, Nanjing Medical 
University, Changzhou, China. zhaojie@njmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

To elucidate the role and regulatory mechanisms of macrophage-derived cystatin C 
(CST3) in Crohn's disease (CD), focusing on colonic inflammation, 
macrophage-epithelial interactions, and barrier dysfunction. Colonic samples 
from CD patients, including inflamed and non-inflamed regions, were subjected to 
scRNA-seq. In vitro macrophage-epithelial co-culture models and untargeted 
metabolomics were employed, and the findings were validated using 
macrophage-specific CST3 knockout (KO) and overexpression mice under 
TNBS-induced and IL-10 KO colitis conditions. Mechanistic investigations 
included Co-IP, ChIP-qPCR, ubiquitination assays, rescue experiments, and 
functional analyses of efferocytosis, macrophage polarization, and barrier 
integrity. CST3 expression was considerably reduced in macrophages from inflamed 
CD tissues through suppressor of SMAD5-dependent transcriptional repression and 
MYCBP2-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Loss of CST3 impaired 
efferocytosis and M2 polarization by inhibiting the ACVR1C/TGF-β/SMAD pathway. 
CST3 deficiency also disrupted intestinal epithelial proliferation, compromised 
barrier function, and increased apoptosis via enhanced NAMPT-INSR signaling and 
accumulation of the inflammatory cytokines. In mice, macrophage-specific CST3 
deletion exacerbated colitis, whereas its overexpression alleviated inflammation 
and restored epithelial integrity. These findings establish macrophage CST3 as a 
key regulator of immune-metabolic-epithelial crosstalk in CD, and indicate that 
restoring CST3 function or targeting its regulatory axis may represent a novel 
therapeutic strategy for CD.

© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione 
Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.

DOI: 10.1038/s41418-026-01750-5
PMID: 42086781

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests. Ethics approval: The clinical study was approved by the 
ethics committee of The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University 
(No. 2023-SR-115). All the experimental protocols were approved by the Ethics 
Committee of the Laboratory Animal Center of Nantong University 
(NO.S20200323-289) according to the guidelines by the Chinese Council on Animal 
Care.


76. Front Immunol. 2026 Apr 16;17:1788290. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1788290. 
eCollection 2026.

Development and validation of a predictive nomogram for response to biologics 
and targeted therapy in Crohn's disease: a retrospective cohort study.

Lin P(1), Wang W(1), Zhou Y(1), Yang Y(1), Liu P(1).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Gastroenterology, The First People's Hospital of WuHu, 
Wuhu, Anhui, China.

BACKGROUND: Biologics and targeted therapies are a first-line treatment option 
for individuals with Crohn's disease (CD). Nevertheless, clinical remission 
rates vary considerably among different biologics and targeted therapies. This 
study aims to develop and validate a predictive nomogram for the response to 
biologics and targeted therapy in individuals with CD.
METHODS: This study included individuals with CD admitted to the First People's 
Hospital of Wuhu from January 2020 to June 2025. Clinical remission rates at 14 
and 26 weeks were observed. The clinical remission rates of different biologics 
and targeted therapy were analyzed using the chi-square test, and multiple 
comparisons were performed. The least absolute contraction and selection 
operator (LASSO) regression algorithm was used to determine variables related to 
clinical remission. A nomogram model was constructed, and the model performance 
was assessed utilizing receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, 
calibration curves, and decision curves (DCA). Internal validation was performed 
using repeated sampling and Harrell's concordance index (C-index).
RESULTS: 218 patients were included in the study. Compared with other biologics, 
upadacitinib (UPA) had the highest clinical remission rate at week 26 
(94.1%,16/17subjects). Nine variables were identified by LASSO regression, 
including pre-treatment Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI), disease duration, 
smoking history, disease site, disease behavior, perianal lesions, hemoglobin 
(Hb), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and type of biologic. The area under 
the curve (AUC value) was 0.796. The calibration curve and DCA curve showed good 
calibration and clinical applicability. The internal validation also 
demonstrated moderate discriminative performance, with a C-index of 0.74.
CONCLUSIONS: The study results demonstrate that UPA appears to show a 
significant clinical remission rate in a small cohort, but this finding needs to 
be validated in a larger-scale study. Furthermore, a practical tool has been 
developed to help clinicians identify the treatment response to biologics and 
targeted therapy in CD patients, promoting the development of personalized 
treatment and precision medicine.

Copyright © 2026 Lin, Wang, Zhou, Yang and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1788290
PMCID: PMC13128662
PMID: 42079671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared that this work was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


77. Immunotherapy. 2026 Mar;18(4):305-315. doi: 10.1080/1750743X.2026.2662145.
Epub  2026 May 3.

ELAVL1 increases macrophage M1 polarization via upregulating S100A8 to promote 
Crohn's disease progression.

Jia L(1), Chen Y(2), Lu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medicine, Jinzhou Medical University, Jinzhou, China.
(2)Health Services Section, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine 
Affiliated Renji Hospital Baoshan Branch, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Biological Experiment Technology Teaching and Research Section, 
Shanghai East Hospital Science and Innovation Center, Jinzhou Medical University 
Postgraduate Training Base, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the impact and molecular mechanism of 
ELAVL1 in promoting macrophage M1 polarization in Crohn's disease (CD) by 
upregulating S100A8 expression.
METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from CD patients were 
collected to assess the expression of S100A8 and ELAVL1. The effect of 
ELAVL1/S100A8 on THP1 derived macrophage polarization and pro-inflammatory 
mediator secretion were evaluated via siRNA silencing and rescue experiments. 
RNA-binding protein immunoprecipitation (RIP) and RNA pull-down assays validated 
the interaction between ELAVL1 and S100A8.
RESULTS: Both S100A8 and ELAVL1 were significantly overexpressed in CD patients. 
Knockdown of S100A8 or ELAVL1 in M1-polarized macrophages marked reduced the 
expression of M1 biomarkers (CD80, CD86) and pro-inflammatory mediators. 
However, S100A8 overexpression reversed the inhibitory effects of ELAVL1 
knockdown on M1 polarization, thereby promoting the M1 polarization and 
inflammatory response. RIP and RNA pull-down assays confirmed that ELAVL1 
directly binds to S100A8 mRNA to regulate its expression.
CONCLUSION: ELAVL1 promotes M1 polarization of macrophages to exacerbate 
intestinal inflammation in CD via up-regulating S100A8 expression. These 
findings highlight the ELAVL1/S100A8 axis as a potential therapeutic target or 
diagnostic biomarker for managing CD.

Plain Language Summary: Crohn’s disease (CD) is a chronic condition where the 
immune system mistakenly attacks the digestive tract, causing severe 
inflammation. A specific type of immune cell, called a “macrophage,” acts like a 
double-edged sword: while it usually protects us, in CD, it can become 
overactive (known as M1 polarization) and release harmful chemicals that damage 
the gut.Our study identified a new biological “switch” involving two molecules, 
ELAVL1 and S100A8, that controls this overactive state. We found that in 
patients with CD, ELAVL1 levels are high and act like a stabilizer for S100A8, 
preventing it from breaking down. This buildup of S100A8 signal macrophages to 
stay in a highly aggressive, pro-inflammatory state.By using laboratory 
techniques to turn off this ELAVL1/S100A8 switch, we successfully reduced the 
inflammation produced by these immune cells. This discovery is important because 
it highlights ELAVL1 and S100A8 as potential markers to help doctors diagnose 
the disease or predict how it will progress. More importantly, it opens the door 
for new “precision” treatments that could 1-day target this specific pathway to 
calm the immune system in Crohn’s patients without affecting the whole body.

DOI: 10.1080/1750743X.2026.2662145
PMCID: PMC13182970
PMID: 42076837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared that they have no conflicts 
of interest regarding this work.


78. Pharmaceutics. 2026 Apr 2;18(4):442. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics18040442.

Hydrodynamic Delivery of IL-10 Gene for Local Immunomodulation in Human Crohn's 
Disease Tissue: A Proof-of-Concept Study.

Sendra L(1)(2), Giner F(3), Olivera-Pasquini GG(1)(2), José Herrero M(1)(2), 
Zucchet EG(2), Aliño SF(1), Frasson M(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Gene Therapy and Pharmacogenomics, Department of Pharmacology, Universitat de 
València, 46010 Valencia, Spain.
(2)Pharmacogenetics and Gene Therapy Unit, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria 
La Fe, 46026 Valencia, Spain.
(3)Pathology Department, Hospital Universitario y Politécnico La Fe, 46026 
Valencia, Spain.
(4)Unit of Coloproctology Surgery, Division of General Surgery, Hospital 
Universitario y Politécnico La Fe, 46026 Valencia, Spain.
(5)Digestive Surgery and Perioperative Care, Instituto de Investigación 
Sanitaria La Fe, 46026 Valencia, Spain.

Background/Objectives: Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a potent anti-inflammatory 
cytokine that is critical for intestinal immune homeostasis. Despite its 
therapeutic potential, systemic delivery of IL-10 has failed in clinical trials 
for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), largely due to its poor localization and 
short half-life. Methods: We present a proof-of-concept study demonstrating that 
hydrodynamic delivery of a naked plasmid bearing the human IL-10 gene to ex vivo 
human colonic segments from Crohn's disease patients results in localized IL-10 
expression and modulation of inflammatory mediators. Results: Compared to venous 
administration, arterial delivery yielded significantly higher IL-10 mRNA and 
protein levels, as well as decreased IL-6 and TNF-α expression. Furthermore, 
nanoparticle tracing confirmed efficient tissue penetration via the arterial 
route. Conclusions: These findings establish arterial hydrodynamic delivery as a 
feasible, non-viral strategy for targeted gene therapy in IBD.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics18040442
PMCID: PMC13118324
PMID: 42076094

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


79. Cancers (Basel). 2026 Apr 13;18(8):1230. doi: 10.3390/cancers18081230.

Immunologic Drivers and Restraints in Colitis-Associated Colorectal Cancer.

Frascatani R(1), Laudisi F(1), Stolfi C(1), Monteleone G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Systems Medicine, University of "Tor Vergata", 00133 Rome, 
Italy.
(2)Gastroenterology Unit, Policlinico Universitario Tor Vergata, 00133 Rome, 
Italy.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), encompassing ulcerative colitis and Crohn's 
disease, are associated with an increased risk of colorectal cancer through 
mechanisms driven by persistent mucosal inflammation. Chronic inflammatory 
signaling, recurrent epithelial injury, and altered tissue repair processes 
progressively reshape the intestinal microenvironment, promoting genomic 
instability and facilitating the development of colitis-associated colorectal 
cancer (CAC). Despite the well-established link between inflammation and 
tumorigenesis, only a subset of patients with long-standing IBD develops 
malignancy, highlighting the complexity of the regulatory effects of the ongoing 
inflammation on the tumor initiation and progression. This review discusses the 
multifaceted roles of innate and adaptive immune responses in CAC pathogenesis. 
Innate immune signaling mediated by pattern recognition receptors, particularly 
Toll-like receptors, integrates microbial and damage-associated signals to 
activate inflammatory pathways that regulate epithelial proliferation, survival, 
and tumor-promoting cytokine networks. Tumor-associated macrophages, 
neutrophils, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells contribute to carcinogenesis 
by sustaining chronic inflammation, promoting immunosuppression, and remodeling 
the tumor microenvironment, although under specific conditions these cells can 
also support antitumor immunity. Innate lymphocyte subsets participate in immune 
surveillance and epithelial homeostasis, yet may also amplify inflammatory 
circuits that influence tumor development. Adaptive immune populations further 
shape CAC evolution, as CD4+ T-helper subsets, CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes, 
regulatory T cells, and B cells exert divergent effects depending on cytokine 
milieu, immune context, and disease stage. Understanding immune-cell plasticity 
and the molecular pathways governing these processes may facilitate the 
identification of predictive biomarkers and the development of targeted 
immunomodulatory strategies aimed at preventing CAC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers18081230
PMCID: PMC13114996
PMID: 42073556

Conflict of interest statement: Giovanni Monteleone served as a consultant for 
First Wave BioPharma and Giuliani SpA and as a speaker for Takeda, Eli Lilly, 
Abbvie, Galapagos, and Pfizer and filed a patent related to the treatment of 
inflammatory bowel diseases with Smad7 antisense oligonucleotides. The remaining 
authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial 
or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


80. Biomedicines. 2026 Apr 1;14(4):798. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines14040798.

From Conventional Therapy to Precision Medicine in Inflammatory Bowel Disease: A 
State-of-the-Art Review.

Almajdi A(1), Shehab M(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacy Unit, Pharmacy Department, Al Jahra Hospital, Ministry of 
Health, Aljahra 03200, Kuwait.
(2)Program of Medicine, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Abdullah Al 
Salem University, Khaldiya 42167, Kuwait.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, McGill University Health Centre, 
Montreal, QC H3G 2M, Canada.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Mubarak 
Al-Kabeer University Hospital, Kuwait City 47060, Kuwait.

Background/Objectives: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) management has evolved 
from conventional therapies to advanced biologics and targeted small molecules; 
however, clinical practice often relies on empirical treatment sequencing rather 
than individualized approaches. The heterogeneity of IBD phenotypes, variable 
treatment responses, and expanding therapeutic options necessitate a shift 
toward precision medicine. This review aims to synthesize current evidence on 
personalizing IBD therapy and provide an implementation framework for clinical 
practice. Methods: A narrative review was conducted encompassing peer-reviewed 
literature, recent network meta-analyses, and clinical guidelines. Evidence was 
gathered on treat-to-target strategies, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM), 
clinical decision support systems, artificial intelligence applications, 
multi-omics platforms (genomics, transcriptomics, microbiome, metabolomics), 
advanced imaging modalities, and special populations including pediatric 
patients and pregnant women. Results: Treat-to-target strategies incorporating 
endoscopic and biochemical endpoints improve long-term outcomes when 
individualized to patient-disease factors. TDM-guided optimization enhances 
biologic efficacy and reduces immunogenicity. Emerging AI tools and multi-omics 
platforms show promise in predicting treatment response and patient 
stratification. Network meta-analyses provide comparative effectiveness 
estimates guiding advanced therapy selection in both Crohn's disease and 
ulcerative colitis. Implementation of precision medicine frameworks remains 
constrained by regulatory, economic, and technical barriers. Conclusions: 
Personalizing IBD therapy through integration of precision medicine tools, 
patient-specific factors, and comparative effectiveness data represents the 
future of IBD management. Overcoming implementation barriers through 
standardized frameworks and multidisciplinary collaboration is essential to 
translate these advances into routine clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines14040798
PMCID: PMC13114052
PMID: 42072339

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.